# 1. revealed knowledge and revealed hoaxes

1. `"revealed" "knowledge"` (a-deconstruction-in-a-quad/spooky action at a distance, feedback and strange loops, language as a lorenz attractor (deep structure, indeterminacy of translation), finite state machines (consciousness as a language, language as social art), paradigmatic efficiency of a functional view of the universe, twice born vs born again aka recursion,  epistemological idealism and science, nature of time and knowledge in myth, socrates' trial and plato's cave, the phenomenology of vision or why the brahmin appears as brahmin, the nuclear premise of brahminical might and supremacy, reduced stature of brahmin in modernity, trinities and their hierarchies, i and thou: the two ends of a mantra, the dogmas of instrumental reason, sense data and its filters, jacob's ladder)


### a-deconstruction-in-a-quad/spooky action at a distance

The relative nature of space-time arises out of a limited observation of the "space-within-space", which is to say a singlular point (referred hitherto differently by different religions as "god", "om" etc.) - which is not so much floating somewhere out there in a void, but rather is recursively folding upon itself as a whole, infinitely. 

This coefficient of consciousness is perhaps as far as man is able to see and confirm with science and faith. What, if anything observable extends beyond it cannot be known. Just as the spatio-temporal awareness of an ant is limited, so is human awareness bounded by it's own rationality. This is also well established.

In other words, to paraphrase a dumbed down Wittgenstein, an infinitesimally small oberservable universe is all there is, that is the case. 

To use a math analogy the limit of function of the universe tends to zero as the input (awareness) tends to reach its highest potential.

All those historically successful in finding "god" by any means (nirvana, bhakti, esctasy by way of transecndental experience, communion with god), report some kind of unity at the end of their searches. usually a word/sound/symbol (om, yaweh, allah etc). The rest is just history/narrative, stories, rules and conventions formed around this fact. Plurality and polythiestic arguments spawn to prove this monothiestic point. Wherein, once again we have a reference to a kind of multiplexing/demultiplexing of spirit as a signal.

I hesistate to call this "revealed knowledge" because it seems to  me to be common sense aided by extra feedback, thanks to my rather unique posisition in the grand scheme of human evolution. But it isn't fair to say that my perch, whatever it may be, has aided in attainment of this knowledge. It merely confirmed and reinforced these ideas.

This primordial state looping on itself is consciousness, travelling within itself, occasioning qualia, birth, and as a discontinuity in the difference - death.

This movement is a difference because the output is negative

In a more logico-formal deressing, a finite state machine with only one state - a self-refrential one.

This is true both of the world outside us, and the world within. In that, just as space is looping on itself, as is consciousness, giving rise to the apparition of the self - a relation that relates itself to itself[1], by language primarity these days [normative implications].



----

[1] Rick Roderick, The Self Under Siege: Philosophy In The Twentieth Century



thoughts are repetitive to the point that they can be "prefetched", action in any direction, no matter the circumstances 