## 3

3.1 each epistemic category independently, as well as in conjunction with other categories, provides the context for a class of machines.


3.2 from 2.2.3.3, some machines operate across multiple categories, others stay confined to a single one.


3.3 objectively, these _degrees of historicity_ become the apparatus of subjective cognition whose synthesis are the _the principles of discernment_ of one machine from another, and also one network of machines (e.g. superstructures like nation states, organizations, trusts, groups etc) from another.

3.3.1 superstructures are machines too, with the caveat that the frame of reference is always relative to the size of the immediate network. thus, a flock of seagulls is as much a machine as a seagull but compared to a single cell in its body, a seagull is also a relative superstructure.

3.3.2 cognitively, it is as if the mind and body are on an eternal drive home on highways both real (roads), imaginary (roads in video games), symbolic (roads in pilgrimages), and transcendent (roads in myth), the dialectic of history thus churns itself out of itself.


3.4 these categories sort machines into futher relationships (hierarchies) downstream, such as those of declinations, declensions, inclinations, and intentions etc. As interesting as these hierarchies are in themselves, for the purposes of this text we shall consider language as a machine/tool without much emphasis on linguistic relations. 

3.4.1 our primary interest is the cartography of this metaphysical kingdom without getting lost in the paralysing parade of linguistic flotillas of meaning, or allowing psychoanalytic concerns to queer the pitch any more than necessary.

3.4.2 just as a counter cannot be made without numbers, legends in metaphysical maps cannot be constructed without using the configurations of singularity (self, identity...), duality, trinity and so on. as described in 3.3.2 the _self_ or singularity of psychosomatic "oneness", is one such config, the duality of a childhood friendship, or the holy trinity others.

3.4.3 such identities of identities form the landscape above which levitate unmoored - circular, linguistic, and string-like rings of _assignation_ and _association_, grouping machines further into categories ad infinitum.

3.4.3.1 a movement of these rings correlates strongly with the movements of '_grounding_' and '_decentering_' in personal and public psyches.

3.4.3.2 these structures are purely language-derived in themselves but assume psycho-social reality in operation and execution outside of language.

> 3.4.3.3 Nenn’ ich, Sakuntala, Dich, und so ist Alles gesagt.