## 4.

> _And as every present state of a simple substance is naturally a consequence of its preceding state, so its present is pregnant with its future._ - Gottfried Leibniz, Monadology


#### 4.1 The absolute interconnectivity described previously implies that each machine runs deterministically, in an inifinitely linear chain of states in transmission.

4.1.1 this causality arises not so much from a "prime mover" but rather from entelechy, which on considered observation appears no different than any other _state_ in the state space of an given machine. 

4.1.1.2 if one represents the state space as a circle, wherein each point on the circumference represents one determined state, then entelechy is represented by an undifferentiated point on that circumference.

4.1.1.3 achieving entelechy however is not simply a matter of identifying this so called point, but identifying it eternally, grounding it into a timeless identity that replaces all connections and states downstream  from _self_.

4.1.2 from an enlightened perspective like that of the Übermensch, the Terminator or the Buddha, entelechy was the previous state, but for mere mortals, it can be a perfect memory from decades ago. for physical machines simpler than man, entelechy is more or less entirely a structural state and for virtual machines (for loops, data etc.) entelechy is a state in execution.


#### 4.2 We leave nothing to chance for randomness is a slice of entropy, the very definition of the word "random" implies that any cognitive artifact can be placed in a context however relative, giving everything a proper place in eternal return. 

4.2.1 that which isn't rational isn't real. it might be imaginary, symbolic, or even transcendental, but rationality is the domain of reason alone and randomness is irrational apriori. conversely, that which isn't real isn't rational. so machines symbolic, imaginary, and transcendental are all beyond reason.

4.2.2 chance or randomness is a state of being for a machine and usually a subset of its state space. a dice includes six states, a coin two but a dice rolled _appears_ to shuffle momentarily between states until it seemingly randomly achieves the next stable state and as does a flipped coin.

4.2.2.1 these only _appear_ to be between states because a statble state for these machines is a matter of perspective, in actuality, in the absence of observation, they retain their state space intact. in so far as both the coin and the dice are symbolic, the "flipping" state belongs not to the coin but to the piece of metal just as it is not the dice that rolls but the cube representing it.

4.2.2.2 machines with a single state space such as numbers are most stable in this regard, thus 3.14 cannot be random, or appear to be between determinations, giving mathematics its rigor.

4.2.3 nor is chance a matter of how the machine is fitted into its epistemological framework - a _symbolic-transcendent_ machine such as ॐ does not flit amongst modalities of its knowledge. it is both symbolic and transcendent in each mention and never real or imaginary. in that the only way to make it real is a symbol, and the only way to imagine it is also as a symbol, and its use leaves nothing to the imagination.


#### 4.3. it is not the case that the absolute is "overdetermined", for that would be akin to turning on ignition in an already running car. 

4.3.1.1 such criticism is a reactionary rape of revisionist theories and an attempt at reification in bad faith, for both in positivist terms and otherwise, determination is already an end-state in a trinary juxtaposition to the previous and next states, closed to further play of probabilities unless acted upon.

4.3.1.2 there are no blind spots in god so it isn't as if there is room for an inch's worth of revolution or arbitrage available to exploit here, each straw and sheaf of wheat standing in a field can attest to this fact of relative freedom.

4.3.1.3 the absolute is thoroughly absolute, and any criticism of the absolute is chaotic like an incredulous typo fighting the rest of the manuscript.


#### 4.4 states are broadly contained in two definitions, those of desiring production and biophysical production.


#### 4.5 production is always production of image, not a photograph, which is an image of an image, but _the production of productions_.

4.5.1 without the imaginary, the symbolic quickly rolls up and passes on into its abstract self. to say that purely symbolic systems, or pure symbols are devoid of meaning would be incorrect, for both meaning and lack thereof rely on image produced between machines signifying and signified. 

4.5.2  a pure symbol is an image in gestation wherein even to make a guess about it is futile without some symbolic framework like language. a pure symbol is an image _without_ an image. radio and television static, encrypted data in transit, a group of stars that form no known constellation etc serve as good approximations.

4.5.3 the imaginary then filters this dark, semi-differentiated primordial signal and brings to under its light, producing image. interstingly, because the imaginary is a bi-directional filter between the real and the symbolic, a pure imaginary machine (image imagining itself) isn't possible. thus, imaginary numbers are real, fictions are rooted in identifiable concepts, dreams and surrealism are intelligible if not logical, and one understands emotions in animals and newborns. 

4.5.4 it is no surprise then, that the imaginary also filters the real down to the symbolic as much as it filters symbolic into the real. caricaturisation of real pepole and events, diagrams and blueprints, photography etc. are born thus.

4.5.5 though the imaginary both amplifies and abates, it is on its own a zone of wholehearted negation and negation of negation. one can thus have _imaginary-symbolic_ (an arbitrary glyph that serves as the central symbol for a made-up religion in a cartoon show), _imaginary-real_ (a cartoon show about the crucifix) but never imaginary-imaginary.

4.5.6 it is indeed possible to have an _imaginary-transcendent_ but it turns into a symbol almost immediately upon discovery and thus becomes real. sometimes there may be a lag in proving the existence of the higgs boson, but the mathematical symbols had proved it long before. if one happens to discover a machine _imaginary-transcendent_, chances are it is already symbolized and real elsewhere.


4.4.1 in the human body, the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems are the flagbearers of biophysical and desiring production respectively.

4.4.2 states of error and undetermined states are subsets of both kinds of production.

4.4.3 states are not willed _into_ existence but flow through the connections and represent the execution or enactment of transmission such that _ignorantia legis neminem excusat_, and states of resistance serve to impede production, but also do so as part of the same script.

4.4.4 human states of desiring are not free from this determinism, as a result exoticisation and fetishization are circumscribed and all fantasies are caricatures and tropes of their primordial counterparts.


#### 4.5 stateless machines and other refugees 