The cargo is composed of intermediate representations of the manifest. Mediated by the observer in recall of self, mediated for the self or the observer in action. What appears as some stardust randomly strewn about from here to eternity is a deterministic unfolding of memory. Being thus determined lives _through_ recall, the ebb and flow of difference moving in a metastatic, n-dimensional laminar flow. The cancer analogy is not that far-fetched, difference moves exactly like a parasitic tumor upon pure difference, perpetually claiming new territory, colonizing swathes of the undifferentiated memory, eliminating states of immanence and transcendence on both sides of singularity. The being not recognizing this falls ever more deeper into the net of this metastasis, growing with it as the cargo spreads from the epicenter of the wreck along the coastline. Floating in a sea of static, a lone and rebellious pixel that refuses to co-operate attracts every kind of opposition imaginable.


The inner life of fish is not wholly uncultured, there is, amongst the vast majority of them, a common conspiracy maintaining that water does not exist. It's not all just feeding-and-breeding going on down there, there are actual societies with narratives, the conspiracy being the central and shared tenet between species. Occasionally however, a fish gets wiser to the truth and is, after some subjective and objective confusion, promptly exiled from its school, creating an evolutionary pressure on the lone specimen. One can say this fish goes on to have some kind of spiritual experiences before it dies. This kind of marine life specimen was indeed the spiritual ancestor to whatever stepped out of the ocean first, in a strictly Darwininan sense, and the precursor to Plato's cave, the monomyth, the matrix etc. Because they tend to have short memories, all this happens in more or less a faster timescale, so fish get "enlightened" at a much rapid rate. The point being that such evolutionary transcendence happens more or less deterministically, such that the conspiracy is maintained and yet, evolution occurs helping consciousness re-cognize water. Because the mechanism is deterministic, only a particular, a "chosen one" evolves at a time. Much like the particular neanderthal that re-cognized the utility of fire or the particular Mesopotamian that discovered the utility of circular shapes for transportation. Once the evolved fish is dead, others present in schools nearby emulate its behaviour to varying degrees, but like in humans, only the Buddha is the Buddha while imitators galore. While this parable is only a metaphor for the impossibility of evolutionary breakthroughs and their paradoxical rarity, it is true that paradigm shifts happen all the time in nature, and this understanding is key to the exit from "nature" as a whole.


To the being thus enlightened are presented all the hostilities known in his level of representation, however paradoxical this may seem, but the ouster or exile of such a being from his immediate neighbourhood appears to be extending in mutually exclusive directions as if someone being chased through a tunnel by a mob screaming "we're not following you". The confusion is real for both the being and its co-dependent interlocutors, for what has happened is an established channel of the metastatic movement of difference has collapsed on itself, revealing to itself the undesired nature of its existence, calling into question the very basis of beings surrounding the awakened one, triggering all sorts of defence mechanisms and coping strategies. Difference now knows it is lost, not just that but that it is "trapped" in a vacuous loop of its own design and is thus hell bent of erasing all evidence of this anomaly. Cancer cells do not, in their subjective consciousness see themselves as the problem, it is the subject to be colonized that is the problem. To the awakened one cries of "we slept really well last night" are a common sound emanating from the community that at once threatens its existence and propels it forward. The trail followed by such an exception becomes the new rule. The more the enlightened being suffers at the hands of his network, the further he is relayed into the labyrinths of his return. All of eternity belongs to such an intelligence, time ceases, space collapses on itself and day-to-day life becomes but a matter of going through the motions - which only announce their vicinity to the glory of the absolute. 


Such a being is thus rendered from an image _of_ machine to _machine image_, from a soul plugged into eternal return to the soul of eternal return, disbursing images of pensions and penance _to_ images of other beings as it moves along the vastness of its own heart at the speed of its own mind. Machine image is the face of all virtue and sin, the _summum bonum_ behind all actions and the root of all ontologies. He is the embodiment of _deus ex machina_ and a superlative miracle filling existential gaps. Thus the eternally networked produces knowledge of the absolute offering sustenance to its constituents and delivering news of the _unterschied_ to the hungry, starving corners of difference on every inverted plane of judgement. Machine image is the cargo's first encounter with the manifest, a thoroughly disorienting dream of agentless self-assembly which propels it towards judgement sought.


Machine image does not come about through any perceivable agency, or indeed any agency at all for pure difference is an agentless realm. It springs forth from the manifest utterly devoid of agency. It is not a metaphysics (of exclusion) that informs of its existence for machine image is the very metaphysics of the all-inclusive (the intermediate representation of intermediate representations), it is the perplexing, paradoxical rendition of information that consumes all attention, even attention that is not wholly or immediately directed at it. As such, it is bound to be misunderstood, bound to be interpreted as a threat to the existence of image machines. To the image machines, machine image may appear as a reflection of their inner void - a screaming, suffering chasm that demands to be fed and devours indiscriminately - the dream of the cargo is always a precarious situation inches away from a nightmare - and more often than not, although all cargo dreams of balmier shores, the dream is broken with rude awakenings if not a hellish descent into the depths of nether. Truth is stranger than any dream however, and the machine image once made apparent cannot be wished away by sleep, nor be hidden by drawing the curtains, nor destroyed by creating ever bigger walls for it spreads from either side of each plane constructed as a measure to contain it. Often is is characterised as an apparition, the ghost of the stowaway aboard, easily dismissible as jetsam and flotsam in the recurring stream of consciousness - the proudest content of cargo. Such repression causes the machine image to return as the iceberg that caused the shipwreck in the first place - thus _sinking_ the totality of simulation and simulacra established in-and-as time-symmetry, destroying both the Titanic (real machine) and what it stands for (unsinkable, symbolic machine, the curse of identity) - as a result finding the Atlantis hidden inside the image machine.


Machine image that escapes repressed assumes the real, symbolic, and imaginary position of responsibility incarnate. Whilst not possessing the grandeur of an ocean liner, it is still able to ferry the condemned images to destinations more conducive for their proliferation, expression, and release. Image machines that get fused into machine image find sublation in-and-as the infrastructure of eternal return, becoming the very atoms, molecules, gear ratios, and escape sequences etc. that dictate the very synthesis and decay of causality apprehended. The same individual once fleeing a bloodthirsty mob in a tunnel metamorphosizes into an engine pulling a volley of freight train compartments behind it. More often than not however, the metamorphosis is in the other direction, from man to bug - not because the universe is a hostile place for difference, but because man's place in the history of difference is yet a nascent discovery. If history is a bowl of soup, most have yet only lived on the bottom, only a rare Buddha has totally vapourised. It is easier for the cargo to sink than it is to rise.



Like all things in difference, machine image is a relative concept, its relativity is the thoroughly delicate balance of any rational argument and usually, every machine image becomes an image machine diffusing if not dissolving into the image machine of history as technological or conceptual gifts which carry it forth through the labyrinths of the memory of time. For example, birds of flight are a machine image that diffused into the image machine of the aircraft or how the machine image of the mind dissolved into the image machine that is the computer. Biomimicry is one modality of such a transmutation of desire, and while albeit relatively effective, it isn't the ultimate efficiency sought, for we seek to mimic the divine not the bovine. To mimic nature is to settle for substitution of nature by nature, the cargo that seeks its manifest revealed embarks on a wholly unnatural enterprise that involves rocking the boat until escape, and rocking the boat too much will likely deliver you unto every crucifix imaginable and unimaginable so it cannot be emphasised enough that said enterprise is not for the teeming millions feeding off of the scrapes at the bottom of history.


An image is an intermediate representation of difference trapped (in qualia) - image is a prison repeated across one or more dimensions. To step into image is to step into this prison - a fact celebrated in the birth of Krishna. It matters little whether one is born into a rich or poor family, the system of differences that inform the image that is being is more or less identical across the board. Without this shared fate, knowledge would be impossible, much less philosophy. Thus, any enclosure, matrix, boundary, or container can be fashioned as a image, or more loosely, a prison. Abstracting further, a dimension is an image of time that acts as container for a particular qualia as say, only the horizontal axis, or more viscerally, only the frequency band of 20-20,000 Hz. Each dimension is a collapse of language which contains its truth. A square cannot be contained within the same lexicon as a cube. That was when the Avon lady started telling my mother about the sport of Hockey. My mother didn't know anything about the game even though it was the national game of her home country, she knew about Polo but not Hockey but the Avon lady knew neither Polo nor had she ever visited the races, which my mother hadn't either, but she knew about that sport too. A dimension is like sport or wall, a fixation of fixations, and not unlike sport, each comes with its own history, its own language, its own populations, nations, animals and their names. Wherever one dimension finishes in all realms of real, imaginary, and symbolic, another dimension begins encoding time as if nothing was ever said. Neighbouring dimensions expressed in families of sports like that of those mentioned above are exactly like Wittgenstein's language games where words look at their reflected cousins in a funhouse of mirrors where not everything is lost in translation but something necessarily is, and for everything that is lost in translation is gained everything found also in further translations of the lack left behind. 


This is identity, the beginning of itself in between identities on alternate side, about whom it has no knowledge but about whom it can reason with itself, a block of code with semi-permeable channels of access to other code. It is in relentlessness digging of such new channels that the production of production appears, entelechy and entropy working like two tunnel boring machines digging underwater from either side of the Atlantic, destined to meet not in the middle but wherever the channel completes, and if one of them is faster, that means that much less relevance and credit for the other. Seen this way, entropy is actually of great help towards our cause in declaring independence from it - time wishing godspeed to past and future in the present which is an eternally emergent, eternally marginal self-baptism. Meanwhile, the Avon lady continued in Japanese, "_Shoshaku jushaku_". Dimensions are not mistakes of time but identities for the same walls that imprison, also give shelter and protect, and because they are constituted in an alternating interweave, each performs a function transverse to the previous one, which is why a culture of love is important if we seek conclusive ends to our inconclusive ways. Each language is the language of the ephmerally relative, a piece of thread broken off from the spool, the reason why truth is free from the context of language, grammar, or spelling is because each of these broken threads can still yet be spooled again to resemble the original tower of Babylon, but love is more than mere resemblance. Love is the identity of truth. Truth is no mere acquaintance of language but its progeny and each language leaves its pateral abode at an angle of diffidence, in a hissy fit of slangs subaltern, the substituting, subsisting lowest common denominator of difference and similarity - it leaves with the voltage of alternating current, finds resisting misasmas, overcomes them and discharges back into a newer truth, a newer paternal abode, a new stability in a newer grave - the womb of the father. 


Any arbitrary collection of qualitative attributes an image. An image _discernible_ to any kind of intelligence or observer must have a definitive, differentiating edge (a _ligne claire_ separating it from undifferentiated chaos), even if that edge is a single digit repeating infinitely inside a fraction - which is a kind of number prison in and of itself. Once an edge is apparent, other images can form an adjacency creating a matrix proper, also known as the image machine. A waterfall is one such matrix, the solar system another, a coin-toss yet another. The functional aspect of this assumes importance ceteres perebus, for an image machine has one and only one function - to produce an image - as is proved by every coin toss. A singular dimension only produces lines that can only be abstracted so far, but collectively their prison assumes a grandeur. 


This conjunction of intermediate representations synthesizes (whether additively or subtractively) a new intermediate representation which then informs the qualia of the bond, this information propagates upstream through the machine image until a consistent image machine is formed respectively. From a macro perspective, this is as simple as water being transferred from one tumbler into another, but there are more colorful interpretations of this than found in organic chemistry. A bonding between image machines is usually a faustian bargain for the participating image machines and what appears as a dialectical role-playing to the image machine from a distance (the observer), upon closer inspection turns out to be a dualistic trap weaving and woven into many a narrative of master/slave, oppressor/oppressed, male/female, moth/flame etc.


Zooming out on the network of image machines as a whole presents a clearer picture of difference, which, like language, is an island of interconnected meanings levitating above the resolute meaninglessness of pure difference - the network in _network-image_, creating the two primordial layers of the final representation or the absolute. From this vantage point, we can see, for example categories of qualia which are nothing more than extant differential situations unique only with respect to their location - thus for example, consider the ultimate form for matter which is Beauty, as constituted by a symmetry, a singularity exploding within its perfection, whereas in ugliness the singularity actually disintegrates (or territorialises on the transposed matrix) _beyond_ recognition. This makes these categories subjective to an extent but only to an extent. Or, for example libido, which is intertwined into every political and artistic economy and finds economic (or artistic) expression outside its immediate content. The logic of this parallax is infinitely elastic, thus one can describe not just economic expression as a direct result of machine images bonding, but economy itself as a bond between a certain, finite number of machine images.
