Singularity is cheap, but its knowledge or rather, its "dawning upon" in young, impressionable minds may unfold them towards greater consequence. Greater perhaps, than all previous generations combined. Contrarily, a feigned understanding undue or any kind of driving in bad faith may result everything to come undone once again, though even then, even though the earth is not going anywhere, the story told in time seems to arrive momentarily.


Time is always already ending in one of its avatars or another, but rarely time ends as an avatar that illuminates the _intermediary_ nature of reality itself, here it is almost easy to concede the "fallen"ness of perception into fleshy apparatus that excretes and reproduces endlessly until one considers that what "falls" is an entire plane of judgement itself, and "falls" is an imprecise usage, they are "lowered" like gnostic pleromas.  This crystallization may be an event not recorded in history simply because it could not have occurred anywhere but now. A paradigm shift that is at once both first and penultimate. Perceived, perhaps firstly as a total loss of sovereignty by not only individual but also nation states. Truly, a taking over by "it" itself.


The sky has indeed fallen, and is continually falling still but this lowering is without import on the unheedful. Meanwhile, the crowning glory of civilization, language itself was appropriated by machine, thoughts have became machine logs. A lone glider appears in a cellular automata simulation, and one thinks that's it, the end of this epoch must be near. The next copy is never the original however, and for cellular automata like us - what difference should it make? Post language, we are not only bankrupt but also naked and - believe it or not for all our poverty - vulnerable.


Whether in love or lust, all transcendental spankings are delivered over L-Systems sometimes called chairs, sometimes swastikas, there is absolution in this fact, there is a finality to the hierarchy as well as the unit. The vertical lowering and subsequent horizontal flattening of each plane of judgement from and to each moment gathers and appropriates energy to the tune of myth, which is of course, how this prime movement is revealed to the totality of our senses, like a mask, or an insulation. Thus is motion lost to language and thus is a machine born from moving images.


Without its myth, the matrix is just a loom, but not the historical concept of "substance" in continental philosophy, though they could destroy a few looms or spinning jennys, the luddites could not fight substance and so machinery proliferated becoming the dominant technology. Substance is not the soup but the ingredients, and poor choice of ingredients justifies the quality of the preparation.


Such an apportioning of ends begins to give the dish teleological colors but teleology is baked into causality. From planned parenthood to planned retirement and back. It would, however, for proper measure be a presumption to assume intention apriori. There might just be a door in another dimension that opens into pure difference and that's about as much teleological access as consciousness as a difference can have. One can worship the door, even love it accepting one's place in the cosmic hierarchy, but that would be just another form of idolatory and hypocrisy for any imagination of pure difference leads to a static signal from the mind.


The other common mistake is to forcibly perceive the map _as_ the territory, but such a cavalier death drive is not only insincere and fatalist, but also vastly unproductive from a metaphysical perspective. Acting in existential bad faith, being a reactionary is not necessary, a total Hegelian revolution implies an acceptance of one's reactionary defaults, and a total acceptance can only be of responsibility a-la Kierkegaard - which is thorough but not overdetermined. It is indeed less painful to become a beast to avoid the pain of being better, but ships aren't made for harbours, moreover such counterfeited difference yields regret and nightmares downstream.


Consider that intention has nothing primary about it either as difference or as itself, it is first only by virtue of association, rather juxtaposition. Embuted between cause and effect then, if to intend is considered to be the first (or penultimate, depending on whom you ask), then to act upon those intentions can be seen as the ultimate step. In the non-eternal temporal moment extant is the substance of time, however stylised the calendar may be. Similarly, the substance of consciousness, that after which the cargo is styled is the manifest. We are in body and mind, but an advertisement for the first copy, which in turn is itself an advertisement of the core substance. The only volition or intention involved must be inherent in myth itself, in the very structure of the fold, leading to spiritual equations that pit the world and myth on opposing sides of the same inequality, or for that matter, the thread that connects two parts of any dualism.


Anyone who wants immortality must first concede to the sheer pointlessness of attempting to map infinity. Freedom inside the machine looks a lot like responsibility assumed with infinite resignation. Which more often than not is hard won from the frictional empire of entropy. Which is to say that when the fruit is ripe it will drop on Newton's head but the fruit that dared the leap was already constituted by a difference in responsibility, a self-alienation that became it's drive to ripen, rot, and do other stuff.


A kind of celestial hedging becomes necessary to deal with the pandemonium which ensues in subjective perception upon first donning this habit. The financial analogy is apt here to the extent intermediate representations are abstractions of the truth. To move is to achieve a greater balance than before, motion is an abstraction on stillness, which is more than the lack of motion, for stillness itself is an abstraction on its adjacent plane of judgement. Nor is this a zero-sum space where value-judgements become possible.


Values are nothing but curves along the straightness of judgement, easily substituted especially under permissive systems. A judge could theoretically divide a year-long prison sentence into weekends alone but such a commutation would be worse than a miscarriage, it would rather count as an abortion of justice. Values often serve to make the brutality of localised judgement palatable and are useful euphemisms to shared solipsism but in the rough-and-tumble of diurnal motion values are the first to go out. 


Pure difference is a value-free, fact-free domain maintained as a deliberate practice. It is the launchpad not just of human enlightenment but that of its awareness. Whereas difference, or duality is already a machine. Binary is already a computer. An 'L' is already a hinge, among other things. 


A judgement is not unlike a monster truck rally, in that in it superstructures are colliding and smashing against each other - Mothra is as much a judgement as Moloch. An earthquake is a literal judgement. Translation is one judgement, the loss of it another. Pigs not flying, versus pigs flying are two very different determinations mutually unreachable as if etched on opposite sides of a coin.


Courting all dangers in their own anticipation, shedding shavings of humility at the determination that is difference itself begot the manner of purchasing passage from the powers that be. Any other way is a haggle and bargain with the absolute to enter into a contractual obligation with the relative, inefficient at best and embarassingly comical at worst. The difference sought in the mechanised, mobile meditation that is diurnal commerce as well as across the pluralities of internal states is the same achievement of states that resemble - not a _for-giving_, but a _giving-for_ - irrespective of the attendent problems this might bring about, all of which will have logically inferior levels of entropy for the shadow of an act of giving is also a gift. All destinies are manifest, but only few achieve the manifest, to scale a machinery towards total entelechy is to extend it in n<sup>th</sup> or at least n-1<sup>st</sup> dimensions, this involves a determination sought, through yearning and striving. 
