# being and difference 

1. 


- From womb to tomb, time has no gaps. Through waking life as well as through states of apperception like dreams, coma or altered perception like meditative, sleep, under the influence of chemicals benign or otherwise such as anesthesia etc. the virtual fabric of time knows no physical holes - neither on the number line, nor in provenance of memory.


- Even death is not untouched by the continuation of time in narratives of reincarnation, astral travel, karma and the like - which the spiritual literature of the world regurgitates frequently and fondly.


- In this seemingly homogeneous unity, difference is introduced - usually in and as a habitus - as a chain of repetition dividing firstly time and the cognition thereof, and secondly, the perception of this difference with itself pervasively, infinitely, and recursively, creating a feedback loop that ushers tomorrow into today.


- What introduces this difference is not time itself, neither anything "perceived", not only because perception assumes time apriori but also because time, in as much as it appears to be "caused" to the being, always appears as something external to perception, and therefore is always outside its control. It is as if, slipstreaming in through a blind spot in cognition, time injects itself into extension creating substance. 


- The bastardized motionless stillness of extension without father time is a singular blind spot which cannot be confirmed by determination synthetic or rigor analytic. 
  
  
- The narrative of the "big bang" assumes a solitary accident describing the incidence of time, as if the observable universe is a single boat set adrift on memory bliss of a single observer who just happens to be a monothiest solipsist. It may shock the followers of abrahamic religions but it is possible to have more than one biological father. The scientific term for this anomaly is "heteropaternal superfecundation". Although the rare exception bears likeness to the anomaly John Donne called a "child with a mandrake root". 


- The practicality of unary numeral systems belongs to academic excursions alone, the holes on Spongebob's body cannot be counted with a single numeral for 1 is already the second number. All pluralities are already constituted by systems of other pluralities, necessitating the abstractions of higher dimensions in mathematics. 


- The embodied experience of being allows for little discernment of time as a single dimensional vector. Whatever occurs _is_ a slice of whatever _could be_, not whatever _is_, for whatever _is_, has already occurred and what has already occured apriori is _difference_. 


- What causes time in the being is the difference that is mind, or the time-sharing "society of mind" which is a multivariate difference in itself. Mind, which is reconstituted by and for the being from its own splinters strewn across time. Mind is a dialectical composition of memory decomposing inside the being.  
  
  
- From within the embodied being one likes to call self, time appears linear and not at all in a superposition as claims to quantum gravity seem to suggest. The linear limitation is entirely biological, for the cessation of time in a dead body is nothing if not the cessation of memory. Memory as the biological consequence of time is indeed being's only road to unraveling this mystery. Memory is the political economy of time, the fetishization of time as a commodity. 


- The cessation of memory is not the same as apperception or altered perception, in that, as far as the being is concerned, there is a finality  without duplication or further propagation.


- In death, difference lives with as much violence as in its introduction - leaving behind only memory of someone's memories. In memory dwell differences, but difference itself is a function of a static, stationary, undifferentiated and infinitely liminal production known as pure difference.  
  
  
- Difference is difference, but the _difference of difference_ is "pure" not in the sense of being a "meta" state, making it nearly impossible to ever achieve a total metaphysics because all meta states conclude logically in a _reductio ad infinitum_. 


- Nor is the difference of difference a "post" difference for to imply a causation to difference is akin to saying the difference between one and two is not absolute in itself, but one occasionally becomes two and thus achieving a "post" oneness. "Pre" and "post" are already conditions of active difference, which is always an image of before and after framed together.


- "Pure" difference is Moses as a market-maker, creating two oceans from one, at least for those who still believe in old myths, if not thermodynamics. The reason its called "pure" is perhaps to signify its incorruptibility, there is nothing "pure" outside pure difference. More precisely, it is Shiva's third eye, the mother of chaos.

 
- Exhaustively, pure difference is not Sissyphus but Maxwell's demon, Eris not Kali, an earthquake-on-demand not a sought-after deluge. It is a feedback that creates a lateral difference in both amplitude and frequency instead of simply an amplification or deamplification in the monotonous similarity of the daily drudge of signal. Not a "flat circle" but a Möbius strip. Pure difference is the duality of difference and every duality casts an inseparable shadow through the realms of being.


- Pure difference is why no two differences are alike and for the being braided between the fundamental differences of birth and death, the bookends speak volumes about the library. The singularity out of which duality is emergent, this splitting of the sum that is the whole, this shattering of the fragile innocence of the absolute, this is death of pure difference is a decay of two phases (φ/ϕ) of difference - into L-systems traversed by time and its entourage, memory where both φ and ϕ are self-contained systems of differences eternal.


- This "lub" and "dub" heard in each heartbeat as the twilight nears, is an _attribution_ of not one duality but two attesting that for being, the dualism of birth and death mirrorred in the very adjacent dualism of mind and body, creates a meeting or relationship, which leads to creation of other dualisms (or relationships, or meetings) inside continuous chains of reaction such as health and illness, small and big, rich and poor, master and slave etc. 


- Descartes' big project was to understand this dualistic system reductively through doubt, but the immediacy of memory, and the continuity of perception create a dense soup leaving little wiggle room for doubt. Doubt dissolves quickly in excruciating pain or euphoric highs leaving being in fear. Descartes' hyperbolic doubt (and its shadow, hyperbolic fear) are both faces of zero on the number line. Both integers and whole numbers exist as shadow of zero, and zero exists as the shadow of infinity. In such a squaring off of numbers, asking _why_ there is something rather than nothing is the lesser question. Pure difference is difference _incognito_.
  
  
- The answer to all _why_ questions is the shadow of the one asking. Even Descartes in the end could not separate the cogito from its reflection, the sum. For the cognition asking _why_ determined to go beyond the _why not_, the answer is simple and expressible in a word or two - to the cogito determined by violence, the "why"/"why not" is a violent dualism, to that which is motivated by perfection, it is revealed as a perfection. Why pure difference is a mirror _is itself_ a pure difference that _is_ the mirror, _cognosco, ergo sum_. 
  
  
- Succinctly, Anselm's argument is correct in that being itself is the freedom of the recall of being, and the being that cannot recall itself is not perfect, but the scale of this freedom, and the degree of this perfection is difficult to fathom, which makes the lay person find succor in the bounds of the lowest common denomination of critical thinking, in the comfort zone of borrowed questions such as why. Had little red riding hood discovered her granny in the bed instead of the wolf, the _why_ questions would not have ensued. More often than not, the being that asks the faithless _why_ is being that cannot reconcile with what they see in the mirror. Those that can drop the baggage of accumulated "knowledge", rise above petty inquiries and swim onwards and upwards into what comes after it. 


- The twice-ejected being is rather first "geworfen" into the plot as a tragedy, then thrown out of it with impunity and indifference of a hypocritical farce. In between is a tweening of past, present, and future - modalities of memory screening through time as if models on a Kantian runway. Generative antinomies - for they imply, however anorexically, a self-referential, self-causal loop. Nevertheless, feedback cannot be self-caused, the signal exists _causa sui_ and recognizes itself _suo motu_. Why the bride must be unveiled or carried across the threshold is the reason for marriage and vice versa. It is not the sunrise that powers faith but faith that attests to the sunrise, just as death attests whether a life was well-lived or not.


- One can see that the signal that is the being's life is a a pair of two movements upon a network of statis drawn between two cul-de-sacs that at once terminate into and extend out of each other, thus actually being is stretched on a crossroads. The negative roll in the projector moves only vertically, but the image on the screen has both vertical and horizontal movement. Digital memory is one-dimensional but Mario can jump both up and down.


- Each movement is the representative of this interstitiality of memory. Motion itself is an additive synthesis of memory, producing not only the real image that is _geist_, spirit or bone, but also unreal images like motion pictures and animated films. Indeed more generally all storytelling within memory, including the storytelling with mediums such as music is a clever use of motion, the pacing of memory.


-  The singular cause of all duality invites attempts at elucidations varied and contested throughout history, the truth is as simple as a crucifix, a four-way system of two distinct dualities. A "two-sided" L-system upon which being is composing and decomposing. Not the unuttered duality of ੴ (which is itself a doubling of the singularity that is ॐ), but its doubling in each utterance creating a tetragrammaton connecting back to YHWH until the question which is begged is not an inquisition of something but a tort of negligence of nothing.
   
  
-  Memory is the melancholy of nothing neglected so in a total recall, everything is recollected. It is one possible ontology of time as the prime mover, however the finitude of physical being, memory or no memory, bags away the difference betwen a finite singularity in an infinte singularity, as a direct result, the relation between motion and time comes under considerable duress.


- causality is the third clue in establishing our thesis. as common-sense implores, and everyday experience suggests in no uncertain terms, one cannot drink the same glass of water forever, just as one cannot step in the same river twice. both materialism (the slave) and its dialectic (the master) appear and disappear with elusive first cause or causes.


- the primordial essence of eternal return is memory, not time. in that it is memory that causes time if we are to take socrates seriously when he said that knowledge is recall. 


- indeed the violent introduction in and out of time is an expression of memory, and it's first cause, transcendental memory, which is the only pure difference there is that can be named. 


- ordinarily, cognition is not seen as the subject itself, but in fact that is all transcendental memory is, cogition as the subject. as pure difference, it is a gapless gap suturing space and time together across physicall apparent and mathematical dimensions


- transcendental memory is the essence of eternal return, the holy grail of all of being's existential seeking 


- i remember waking up one morning and a beautiful song was playing on the radio, a proustian wave of happiness washed over me, it was a song from a latest bollywood movie, and it was the first time i had heard it, but though the melody was as familiar as a long-lost friend, those ideal few seconds were without the paranoia and dread of a deja-vu, yet absolutely lacking in any unfamiliarity. a bluesy tune with and excellent base line and a cerpescular melody that welded my morning to every twilight preceding and since.
  

- if it as a appears hegelian hoax to say memory is the cause-celebre of cognition and the context for the appearance of the apparition of first twofold principle called duality, then that is because it is precisely that, but my aim here is to use it as fundamentally as a unit of instruction in an exposition of the final reality, i.e. to go beyond time needs still a manouver that involves some fancy driving around ontologies that currently populate human knowledge - not only to avoid the curse of circularity, but also to establish memory in its own right, something hitherto ignored by philosophers and psychologists alike.


- the first manouver is in the understanding of forgetting, no one ever actually forgets anything, but the object of recall changes from moment to moment, alongwith the distance from the co-ordinates of space-time where the memory resides - to forget is to remember something else. thus firstly, memory is to be understood as time, still apriori but unfolded and stretching infinitely across dimensions of pure difference. for simplicty one can keep this analogy confined to two-dimensions.


- the forgetting of dreams is a prime example, frued's royal road is a richer alternative to our humble trail in that it may be more accessible to some, but our trail is long-winded, more beautiful and consistent. the difference in our approach and that of frued's is akin to strolling to-and-fro on a piece of highway versus taking a stroll through a pine forest. or the tidy ebb-and-flow of the ocean waves crashing on the beach versus the messy and wild traversal of a river from its origin to the sea.
  

- just as quickly as a dream is forgotten, reality is re-membered. the dream is then re-constituted by wakefulness but the encoding is of course lossy, partly due to the sensitive, phenomenologically reduced nature of the memory that constitues sleep.


- both rememberance and forgetting are partial movements of pure difference, whereas eternal return is the completion of these movements 


- having thus established conciousness as a singular traversal across the two faustian ends of pure difference disguised as memory (and it's refletion, forgetting), we can begin to address the curse of circularity in pure difference itself. 


- it is easy to dismiss pure difference as "turtles all the way down", but in fact a more mathematical exposition is possible [1]  


- pure difference is the essence of difference, it is difference _deferred_ or difference as its own subject. it is that which cannot be perceived by anything except itself and that which perceives nothing except itself. it is difference raised to the nth power. it is negation that negates itself. not a Heideggerian ontological "Differenz", but rather it's essence which is "dif-ference". in other words, not the "first difference" but the very context that makes (first, or nth) difference possible.


- Heidegger himself wondered whether thinking could do away with considerations of ontological difference, and in the process, do away with metaphysics. Post-modernists like Derrida have inched towards a solution with various methods to scale-up phenomenological reduction to hyperreal avenues but such deconsructions merely maim metaphysics without squarely eliminating it. Which leads to relativistic ethics a-la Latour's multiplexed metaphysics or fanciful ideas of personal metaphysics, which look good in fairy tales but live only on the surface of the imaginary.


- doing away with ontological difference and by extension metaphysics might not be entirely possible or desirable, our aim is to fail to reach the point in difference where a metaphysics (or petaphysics etc) can become possible. 


- such an abstracted phenomenological reduction allows us gaze into the abyss without becoming a part of it, to admire the reflection in the mirror without stepping into it with the final effect of opening a new gap that gradually envelopes the landscape of _cognesco ergo sum_. 


- the act involves the kind of balance necessary to lift the top slice of a sandwich just enough to see the contents without completely disassembling it. to take deconstruction to its logical conclusion is to destroy the possibility of _any_ metaphysics entirely, but to penetrate reductively until there is just enough left for the existent to pour in doesn't. to call gaslighting metaphysics within an inch and letting it confess "faith" is a stretch, one does not need faith to apply mathematical induction or bayes' theorem, but a measure of patience is involved.


- pure difference is duality ___embuted___, the moment of intention right before it becomes an action, the potential implicit in each circumstance, in other words, cause-implicit whereas difference itself is cause-explicit.


- there are two parts to it, the 'pure' bit is the symbolic, and the difference is the real. there are no imaginary gaps in pure difference, infact, the lack of the imaginary constitues pure difference such that, the addition of the imaginary synthesiszes it into difference. [2]


- this dialectical is not unlike what happens when a photocopy or projection is made - the original, the negative, the antethesis of pure difference meets substance of paper, copy machine, projecter screen etc and becomes an image, enlarged or inverted or tangible.


- without the imaginary, it remains dormant as an antithetical duality [3]


- the 'difference' in pure difference is the corporeality of the symbolic, it complements the antithesis that is the real but is not constituted by it, but rather with another antithesis - that of the more creative duality of imaginary and symbolic - there is nothing real in the symbol, it is a tabula rasa marked on the underside (unterschied), but unable to roll itself over without difference - the 'difference' is the life of dasein in its current iteration whereas the 'pure' is the collective expression of all past and future lifetimes of the dasein across imaginary, symbolic and real realms.


- this completes the dialectical of birth-life-death, and hints towards its ever-recurrance - solidifying eternal return as an entity (at least for the dasein) that is born-into, lived-through, and died-in innumerably. the marking on the underside is serially inscribed memory going all the way back to pure difference - but without the context of memory, it cannot be recalled or even accessed.


- thus, like an eternally flipping coin levitating in a quantum superposition, pure difference awaits for memory to allow the wave function to collapse.  the important thing to note here is that each face of the coin is a duality in itself. could we then not describe singularity as a fabrication of not single duality but rather a pair? 


- these four mothers (causality implicit) of reality give then birth to one daughter that transcribes reality for being - that daughter is memory, or causality made explicit (at once real, imaginary, and symbolic) as the atriums and ventricles in each heart. 


- memory sprouts in the harvest of difference from pure difference, eternally until the next crop - for in pure difference "boredom is the root of all evil", as Kierkegaard puts it. With each successive birth, the crop rotates somewhat until an exhausted memory reaches a fallow period. whereupon a new season of fertility begins.


---

- alternatively, we can study pure difference by beginning with difference itself. 

- in order to have a difference we need a duality, a singular entity cannot be differentiated against itself in any particular moment of time, to differ is to compare one thing with another

- pure difference is simply this comparison folded onto itself, or difference compared with difference itself making the total number of entities four 

- to attempt this mathematically is to arrive at four different singularities of zero, inifinity, unity or duality. depending on the arithmatical operation. regardless, a chasm opens and yawns for all those that dare peek in - already we can see how pure difference works, what is also interesting to note is that [duality renders itself more readily as an antithesis than not], thus for our intents and purposes, it is safe to conclude that reality is an expression of difference and memory, not unlike a magnetic tape unspooling over the floor.

---


- just as difference has its origin in pure difference, memory has its origin in transcendental memory. this is nothing but a more formal way to state the crude mind-body duality. 

- whereas zero and inifinity are self-contained infinite singularities, unity or duality are finite ones 


- pure difference thus defined, implies an impossibility of any metaphysics to describe it accurately without infinite regression, only an ontology can do the job 

--- 


- reducing duality to difference and memory (aka mind and body in a local frame of reference) still leaves us with the questions of their origin, the quad here is apriory memory, apriori difference, and their aposteriori counterparts 


- the structure of pure difference is a great clue in understanding the structure of substance, so we can start there, that in in a "folding" of the substance onto itself 


- the commanding monism here must be seen as a whole, and the structural details of all spatio-temporal reality reveals itself to be "folded" but not curved, there is no "curved" movement in space as two parallel lines never meet even if they traverse infinitely over a curved euclidian space 


-  light curves can measure the light intensity of a celestial object or region as a function of time, but light itself does not curve, it only bends. in as much a bend is a differential of the fold, we can use this intuition to trace the geometry of pure difference 


- pure difference as a nonduality is an angular bend (as opposed to a curve) with the crease marking the channel through which memory traverses and substance is nothing but this dialectic of bend, crease, and the resultant, oft forgotten fold itself.


- in atomic terms, this manifests as a unity, wherein the nucleus is the fold around which the electrons trace their creases indefinitely. at more general levels, we can see the pattern repeat in celestial bodies like those that make up the solar system.


- how the primitive angularity of the nonduality ends up in locally perceived curvature is also a function of pure difference, albeit one that is several rungs down in the essence of its function 


- this conginitive sphere is the subject of reflexive perception appropriated via modalities of matter, the language-less, shadow-free origin of the origin itself, the primary bend without quadratic embelishments lies *without* the spherical perfection of any self-sustainable and stable configuration of matter [2]


- reality, is then, in some fundamental sense, bent. it is not the case that this corruption happens within substance, the case is that that substance itself is a successive corruption of difference prima facie and the twice-excommunicated being can do naught but repent this fact perpetually between entry and exit 

--- 