2.

- it is causality which belies the expression of being as a finite, different subject of an infinite, indifferent object. 


- since perceived time is not causa-sui rather a consequence of pure difference (folding upon itself), the self-similarity between two succesive moments is a difference in itself. the superhighway of difference is punctuated with exits in time at self-similar and regular intervals 


- a determined being can thus, break the loop of eternal return to arrive at transcendental memory, which is memory in superposition, a door which opens into pure difference itself. though this journey is so fraught with existential, mythical, and symbolic dangers and fears that few attempt and fewer still arrive at the destination


- transcendental memory is a disembodied phenomenon it isn't a recall of time in the mind but a recall of time outside of any and all minds - in terms of its interface with pure difference, it is the rememberance of forgetting - the realm of all things lost, the kingdom of the imaginary. 


- Schrödinger's cat is the keychain you misplaced last time until you found it, between the time you lost and found it, it was an artifact in transcendental memory - regardless of how many people saw it lying on the mantle, it was not there until you recalled its coordinates or somehow otherwise chanced upon it - including having someone else find it for you. 


- the way out of difference and into pure difference is a similar recall of something long forgetten, except the thing forgotten is forgetfulness itself


- blind spot of the  "big bang", or a singular entry point of time into substance is therefore a myth perpetuated by parochial and limited scientific foresight, there isn't a single original fold but as many as there are dimensions available for observation, which surely as mathematics confirms, are more than three.


- time is the perforation that marks the borders between one dimension and another, across which extends difference as planes of angularly folded faces of a singular, n-dimensional polyhedra. our observable universe is one such face.


-  the perforation itself is a duality consisting of succession of stiches and gaps between them, the stitch itself is an instance of difference and the cause of memory (difference welded to difference) whereas the gap is an instance of pure difference and the cause of transcendental memory (difference separated from itself)


- a lot could go differently between the disloging of the apple from the tree and it's impact with Newton's head, or between the time a bullet leaves the muzzle to meet its target ... the argument here isn't that causality branches out at each integral step of the way and we only experience but one of the multitudes, but rather that we are reminded of a singularity as opposed to recalling every permutation extant. 


- it is pertinent to discern between causality and continuation - what binds the diurnal nature of being's experience of time isn't a predetermined chain of cause-and-effect, but a determined political economy of continuity that intends to tell a singular story instead of a cacophony of bewildering qualia 


- continuity is linear time, while causality is quadratic hence can have more than a single solution or outcome of any possible eventuality. continuity unfolds at the intersection of time and memory whereas causality is a memory-dependent phenomenon. indeed, there are mental afflictions that result in a loss of faculties to establish causality but only death is the end of continuation.


- another somewhat crude analogy of this difference between causality and continuity could be in the "compression" of time, causality is lossy compression whereas continuity is lossless 


-  transcendental memory is a kind of a break in this encoding, an event within this political economy of time which swallows it as a whole, expressed either as a glut of memory or a bankruptcy of forgetting - causing, in either case,  a grounding of being into the time by way of returning to it every possible recallable event and, as a consequence, a grounding of being into eternal return. into that place referred to in revelation 10-6 where "there shall be time no longer".


- descriptions of such a skip in the recording and ordering of time are conscpicuous by their absence in the annals of human philosophy, including spiritual literature. therfore is ill-understood, and underreported as various states of "enlightenment" such as "nirvana" or "moksha", even though it is a well understood goal of the geist to achieve this state of affairs. 


- the reason why it remains an elusive ideal of spirit to achieve a metasensory understanding is exactly this determined binding of memory into difference. memory as a lossy encoding of difference prohibits any state of omniscience, causing reality to appear as a locally defined, limited expression of the limitless.


---


- cognitively speaking, the bend, crease, and fold dialectic is directly mapped to cognition, object, and subject. alternatively, it can be stated as the dialectic of the observation, observer, and the observed subject.


- if time was matter, causality would be its density whereas continuity would be its volume 


- we now begin to see how observed time cannot be a finite expression of the infinite, just as any solid, liquid, or gas filling a container cannot express more than the contours of the container will allow it to. in other words, just as all possibilities and probabilities of the life of a rotting wound are already contained within the cauterization, time is the sum of all memories, the sum of all differences in itself.


- exactly which of these probabilities is alotted to observation is a dependent chain of differences leading all the way to the first one. this is the essence of the buddhist doctrine of __pratityasamutpada__ [4]


- this apparent chain of causality is dense locally but at levels of abstraction greater than sensory data allows, the chain grows sparse until both cause and effect cease to exist. 


- this density of time, this inescapable labyrinth of events that dictates our everyday life is a deconstriction decoupled from the actual state of affairs to the point that it appears to ensnare us with it's magnified, exaggerated version the real until we are enslaved to follow it like a perforated page being torn from a diary.


- however, a page being torn from a diary need not necessarily follow the perforation.


- occasionally, albeit rarely and of late increasingly rarely, by acts of omission or commission, by dint of will or chance, a peek is affored into the obverse of time. [5]


- a leak in memory will obviously lead to transcendental memory, which is a phenomenon unnatural enough to be equated with stepping out, for the first time, of Plato's cave.


- to be clear, there is a difference between the mere existence of an exit on the difference superhighway and the act of taking said exit. usual time does not allow even the observation of the existence of such an exit from time as we rush past it preoccupied with the baggage of all moments preceding. 


- on the rare occassion such an exit is witnessed it gets ignored, or bypassed as a two-bit deviance from the norm - the symptoms of which may include anything between seasonal affective disorder to full blown schitzophrenic attacks. rarer still is the occassion, whereupon one either takes said exit willingly, or is left with no other route - herein not only the destination changes, but the point of original departure changes as well.


- the main idea here is that __pratityasamutpada__ can be raised to the nth degree. dependent origination in a quantum flux.


- the gap between two stitches isn't "real", in the sense that it is an absence of thread, nor is the gap imaginary in the sense that the absence of thread is real and not feigned, what completes the dialectical of a stitch (thread-gap-thread) is precisely this symbolic presence.


-  arriving at this sanctum sanctorum of difference is itself not just emancipatory, but emancipatory to the nth degree - allowing one to live a life free of compromise. however, the elucidation of such a frozen artifact of timlessness and memorylessness is not a function of language, for language is a phenomenon occuring in time - thus it is impossible, to clearly articulate (weather through words, heartbeats or other means) what a being for whom the doors of transcendental memory open witnesses.


- infact, language is the first thing to go out the window and an immediate, irreversible invocation of the Wittgenstenian dictum of "Whereof one cannot speak, thereof one must be silent" suffuses through one's being. Even where one could describe the contents of TM to others, it is generally a good idea to refrain from doing so for the departure from norm is so great that the risk of expression overpowers all urges to aid the fellow cave dwellers.


- how language is invalidated by pure difference is also a rather interesting phenomenon which can be understood with a thought experiment. suppose an interdimensional being visits earth with the intention to marry an earthling who can speak a shibboleth in a language of earth. assuming that the shibboleth signifies something earthlings are familiar with, the ontological gap is such that the challenge quickly devolves into an NP-hard problem and cannot be ascertained in any nondeterministic polynomial time. even with quantum computing, arriving at a single solution seems a likely overreach. [Ontological Relativity, Quine et al]

--- 

- the curvature of space-time can be said to be a by-product of the local(ly observed) movement of memory in difference - the "universe" is flat. the same process of observation that cause space-time to be curved give rise to such phenomenon as rational numbers. it is no stretch of imagination to say that rational numbers are imaginary just like we can show that imaginary numbers are real [welch labs].


- actually, rational numbers are just quantized natural numbers, quantized for purposes of measurement precise in terms of sense data. at an ontological level, reality is dual i.e. binary. something either exists or it doesn't, and what does exist is not a fraction but a whole.


- what then could it mean to say that being exists (or doesn't)?


- simply stated, being is a whole. a singular synthesis of an objective simulacra that comes "batteries included" with its own simulation. an recursive iteration of pure difference. 


- important to note here is the difference between being as a defined here and Hegel's concept of geist or spirit. Spirit is the metaphysics of being, but being can occur at varying levels of this cognition, such as animals, insects, inanimate objects, cartoons, works of art, artificial intelligence etc. what is sought to be elucidated here is an ontology of being rather than a metaphysics.


- spirit can be reduced to its cognition, but being can only be reduced to pure difference. in linguistic terms, any standalone receptacle of meaning. 


- a single tear born in an eye, rolling down a cheek before finally hitting the linoleum is an underrated example of being. the life of a tear starts before it is born, an adjacence of sheer will disguised as happenstance seems to bring about the watery discharge to fruition. anyone lacking in will cannot start and/or stop crying, similarly, one lacking in will cannot live, die or even be born. 


- but will is a contextual apparition, it has been experimentally proven that will is a finite resource of mental faculties - context has an end conginitively speaking but not continuity. the context of a situation has bearing only on elements in a local range (any event is a local event) whereas continuity can appear to carry it infinitely across time. 


- the debate around abortion across the globe is part of the failure to establish the locus of context, which begs the question of relation between memory and will. the cognitive end of context and the limitlessness of memory cannot be said to be opposing forces, for in that case, it would be possible to live through the symmetry of time, and time-travel would be possible. 


- the ontological reason for impossibility of faster-than-light movement is the impossibility of forgetting...each impression of difference in time, each recall and each repetition leaves behind a trail of consequences, however recorded. in the words of delueze "it takes a lot of memory to forget".


- buried inside such an impossibility of any movement or "will", is its memory. but like time and memory aren't self-willed, nor will is self-created, as stated previously, difference is externally introduced - difference without which it would be impossible to differentiate between one moment and the next. 


- in short, being recalls entropy and re-creates its birth in death in the same way a tear wills itself in the memory of a hurt long gone. 


- the deduplication of origin will lead us to an indivisibility, a sigularity that resists further differentiation and has us all trapped in the glory and magic of being. hitherto called by various names in the reglious literature, this pure difference affords and opportunity to understand it by dissection of its extrusions - i.e. substance, matter etc. however any attempt to do so is a fool's errand - as if trying to understand the body by cutting up the shadow.


- thermodynamically, there is a line of causality to be established from the shadow such that the vector of time points towards the object casting the shadow. though this vector isn't traversable by being, it is nevertheless traversable by light. in certain mental afflictions such as narcissism, this vector is traversed indefinitely by imaginary, symbolic, and a failure of the real. indeed most mental afflictions are spot failures or lapses in the real. think of narcissus, forever confused whether the reflection is causing him or vice versa. 


- ordinarily though,  psychological fixtures and apparatuses forbid such an unfolding of causality and continuity of being beckons it onwards towards dissolution, making entropy apparent but  the loss of being's corporeality is but an event in the memory of being - a recognition which can last for ages.


- just as the shadow unfolds out of matter upon the incidence of light, pure difference casts difference as its shadow in a recognition/recall of itself.


- this extant, existential, inescapable, inevitable inseparability of matter with its shadow or substance with its attributes is memory itself, and traced all the way back to its origin, the memory of memory itself, i.e. transcendental memory.


- the dialectical is here refactored as constituting its synthesis, which anyway is always already a product of thesis and antithesis, seen this way, synthesis is a mediating agency representing the relationship between master and slave. permeating through difference and its offspring without interval, like the holy ghost at once transcribing and circumscribing the bond between father and son.

---

- the attempts of psychology and psychoanalysis in enumerating and enunciating this rubric of cascading differences end up in a jumbled mess where language devours itself in a sequence of petty differences - interpreted variously as various improbabilities and various impossibilities. psychology is right in so much as the cure for the deafening silence of pure difference is "talking", but more often than not fails to recognize the pivotal role of silence in talking.


- language is inherently incomplete as it is unable to "return to the fold" without silence - which is the meaning of all meanings. thus any cure based off of uses of language is bound to be superficial, prolonged, and prone to lapses. 


- the first word ever to be uttered by human must surely have been a cry for help, just as the first sound of a newborn is also a cry for help, not from the outside world because the newborn has no concept of "help" or "outside" yet, but from within, from the source, the ejecting singularity.


- unterschied = the schism or division or 'separation' (that is somehow) 'under'. /\ (perhaps this looks like a 'namaste' in acknowledement of mutual differences). already we can see some sort of polyhedra emergent.


- compare with sanskrit/hindi for difference 'antar', only one syllable short of 'antara', sanskrit for 'within'. the under/antar here is phonetically similar for a reason. the split is at once both under and within.


- thinking of difference in terms of its opposite, similarity does not help our cause. for pure difference allows for no similarity. similarity is function of finding patterns in sense data, but it is pure difference all the within and without because no two atoms are alike. 


- even in the crude language of quantum physics they may be 'entangled' or in 'superposition', yet the duality persists. in other words, simliarity is difference differing with itself - in the process creating both qualia and consciousness simultaneously.


- this fundamental 'not', this primordial negation that constitutes similarity is the engine of history, it is the reason dialecticals render better under examples of negations than addition. the perfect reductive example of this apparent movement is division itself, a process by which a singularity explodes into a multitude.


- study the self as contituted during moments of irony, even for the first time, irony strikes as already familiar. the hint of nostalgia itself is the product of memory at work. "_irony as infinite and absolute negativity is the lightest and the weakest form of subjectivity_" wrote Kierkegaard. the "_humorous or emphatic effect_" Plato detected in it lasts just a bit longer than its welcome, causing a sourness of mood - especially under moments with its uglier cousin, sarcasm. 


- irony and sarcasm quickly lose everything in translation if you are senile, or have a tendency to forget the past quickly, just as death would be meaningless if you had never died before, memory of just this moment would be meaningless without recall of moments before and hence.


- irony is as good a gateway to understand motion as any, as a kind of movement within and across memory. there is nothing exceptional or profound about it as an emotion or as a literary technique, but what could be "infinite" about something as mundane as everyday irony? could it be that in irony blooms a negative fractal, a flower of not that opens up all the way to the 'neverhood' of pure difference.


- looking at the irony contained in a mask. is it not a difference that is, in theory at least, supposed to suggest a fracture in the self - a singular crack connecting birth and death with the nostalgia of the void in each moment - a gaping hole in the superego baring for all the fundamental lack connecting desire with itself. put simply, irony is desire undressed until all that remains is a fantasy, hence deserving of the sobriquet of "weakest form of subjectivity".


- all fantasy is ironic in this sense. indeed a fantasy without irony is almost a desire with or without an intention to pursue it. a mask is a perfect prop for the ultimate fantasy, to be pure difference - desire to be anything but "this".


- except pure difference is exactly the slippery slope of lingiustic and existential meaning, grasped by few and misunderstood by most, it is an elusive color of understanding that is seldom made self-evident in difference, even though all things around us bear its imprint and are essentially its copies. 


- to behold difference without a mask is, to put it mildly, look at the face of God. at once sympathetic and scary, disfigured and disfiguring. 


- at the core of all consciousness and qualia is pure difference. the product of consciousness and qualia is an abstraction - a difference - layered atop it as a mask. 


- if irony is the basest and lowest expression of memory, transcendental memory is perhaps one of memory's highest expressions - like seeing a diamond 'unfolded'. 


- irony is "infinite and absolute negativity" as a pointer to the first negation of pure difference - the first difference, and the resulting primary dualism of two systems of pure difference. this system is the first mask of God - the same system we witness upon seeing a mother bird feed its offspring.
  
  
-  these two systems of pure difference already constitute an lorenz system called  infinity that all extremes of subjectivity point towards. TM in so far as it is a pointer to this system and beyond, is irony raised to the nth degree.


---

- The Hegelian absolute has hitherto resisted structural interpretations, and rightly so, for structure implies extension and "the identity of the inner and outer" "does not externalize itself".[SL?]


- Yet a self-contained absolute as already constituted by an "inner" and "outer", cannot "become" anything other than itself. This paradox of externalization apriori at the very heart of Hegel's exposition of the absolute needs further unpacking.


- While to look at pure difference, i.e. difference stripped of all masks is "to stare the negative in the face", perhaps adding the impurity of the first mask allows us a better understanding of the absolute. the phenomenological reduction employed here must be infinitely thorough though, for even a single coat of abstraction over pure difference implies duality, and thus infinity. 


- such a well-defined, sandboxed system containing a unit each of chaos and it's negation is infinitely attractive, infinitely destructive, infinitely stable and at the same time, infinitely unstable. but at least it is a configuration that can be studied as opposed to the pure chaos of origins. 


- history, in so far as it is the collective memory of being at any given point in time, identifies this configuration of mutual differences as myth. thus, it is no stretch to call the separation of the first difference from pure difference as (the first) myth. 


- a myth is the perfect mask for reality for it includes in it both the simulation and the simulacra, both the "inner" and the "outer" in a steady enough state for one to draw meaningful inferences, even structural ones. infact, to counter Hegel linguistically, the negative cannot have a "face". it is myth that makes the chasm yawn.


- myth is no random apportioning of history, it is not a story told now and then in cultural settings for educative or entertaining purposes. it is the very scaffolding upon which the edifice of history is built. myth is the first and last unit of history, the very schema of all memory.


- conversely, subtract the myth from any duality and one is left with unadulterated difference, a noumenon representing the chaos of pure difference forever feeding upon itself.   


- take away myth from a mathematical relation (which is a duality existing on both sides of an equality or inequality), to get incomprehensible gibberish instantly. 


- for example, take the equality `1+3=4`, here the myth is embedded not only in the number literals and operation symbols, but also in their arrangement vis-a-vis each other, their relations with each other and their relations with themselves in the form of the shape of their respective glyphs, the quantities/operations these glyphs came to represent and so on. `1` is thus the story of `1`, just as Jesus is the story of Jesus and all philosophy is the history of philosophy. Devoid of the myth that started it on its historical adventure, `1` (both the number and the symbol/mask representing it) is swallowed back into pure difference.

- myth is the umbilical cord binding the noumenal with the phenomenal. it is pure difference in an "embuted" state, at once pregnant with consequence and the ennui post-partum.


- surely, a derivative of memory can be observed as the sum of sense data at that point in time. however, a derivative of time already tends to timelessness and observing a derivative unit of memory is akin to observing a bud that might literally take forever to blossom. which is to say myth as the ultimate mask of time is already one end of a hypnagogic mirage, the other end of which is pure difference or "masks all the way down".


- it is almost pointless to say then, what the second, third, or n-th removed difference from pure difference is. inductively, we have seen that difference once-removed causes time. n-th removed difference thus also causes time, albeit the subjective interpretation, and experience of time might vary at each 'n'. 


- being is thus forever trapped between these two ends of a faustian bargain. hanging on a thread between a cataclysm and a catechism, where the beginning is an entanglement of an all-consuming chaos and end is a horizon that makes for a lovely sunset or a nice story but itself remains ever elusive and groundless. 


- all time, from the apparent meaninglessness of birth to the apparent purposelessness of death, appears as memory - the quanta of myth. memory becomes myth through the life lived, imbuing the otherwise purposeless, meaningless events of birth and death with meaning, however local.


- it is now apt to return to our earlier assertion of an impossibility of a finite expression of the infinite and prove that each life is not a slice of the infinite rather a discrete continuation of an apparent discontinuity. we also will see how space and matter follow the inception of time.


--- 

- when the absolute comes undone into an unhinged origami clockwork of time, space, and matter, it does so out of an involuntary, sympathetic inner volition - casting outwards - what appears as negation is always self-negation. 


- this inversion of polarities between the state of pure difference and the first difference is paramount. pure difference launched out of itself due to an unbearable violence of being whereas difference extrudes from a comparatively peaceful, less violent and more existential proposition.


- out of the closeted, claustrophobic denseness of infinite negation arose the possibility of synthesis, like demand being introduced for the first time into an economy of pure supply. instantaneously, pure difference was "sold out" and has been so ever since.


- we must undermine all Aristotlean notions of causation to better grasp this pivotal schism in the scheme of things. the reason why narratives such as the "big bang" create an untrue illustration of the origin is because, among other things they imply that there is, out there somewhere, a singular source of pure difference still spewing its guts out into an expanding universe. whereas what is more likely is an utter exhaustion of pure difference into an eternal expression of a mutating parallax - with nothing remaining of the original pure difference except a fired cartridge case or a husk or an empty wine barrel for Diogenes to dwell in.


- Ex nihilo nihil fit, and both as noumenon and phenomenon, the absolute is an outreach of a 'nihilo' par excellence. but Aristotelian causality would have you believe otherwise. objectively, not only is the absolute uncaused, it is also thoroughly unobserved and as lonely as planet earth. 


- a Humean understanding of causality is more condusive to our purposes, although it is also only an instructive instrument - but the idea of a habitus informing a difference engine of information apparent is a more fitting description.


- living inside such an elusive flux of self-negation, does it even make sense for an entity to ask "why"? an epistemological fog quickly envelopes us, growing denser by the minute, and we have neither the crutches of faith nor the torches of make-believe metaphysics to guide us.
 

- the journey undertaken by the synthetic apriori has delivered it to its own frontier, giving rise to fundamental inquiries into the nature of "self", but such epistemic concerns are false and illusory for how can the "self" not know itself? and we're not talking about a primitive idea of self as relates to fishes or insects, but a self on the precipice of dissolving into a fully mechanised consciousness of its own creation.


- something doesn't add up here, for it isn't a failure of memory that epistemological paradoxes go unanswered, memory is replete with information from the very first cellular being and all is encoded in genome. surely then, the epistemic error is an ontological malfunction of language. the loss in translation of memory into words. 


- the first of the two dogmas of empiricism is that different explanations of analyticity are circular, but nobody has applied this to aristotle's model of causation. not seeing the purlioned letter is one fact, looking for it everywhere it isn't is a completely different matter and the four causes of aristotle make us do just that, for it very much appears to be the case that the analyticity behind the very question "why" cannot be explained except in circular terms and when the only tool you have is a hammer, every problem looks like a nail.


- another reason for our recent epistemic confusions is that causal appropriations of time were useful when things were more mechanical, when newtonian physics was the norm as opposed to quantum and post-quantum paradigms that are now emergent. causality today is simply the wrong packet size for any memory of time transmitted, history is after all, an unbroken chain and thus the notion of *continuity over causality* continues to inform our discussion. 


- armed with this dictum, how to reason differently about cause and effect? about before and after for surely, causality is clearly exposing that the onion was cut only _after_ the knife fell on it.


- usually when lovers quarrel, or when wars are fought, the immediate cause of conflict is not the same as the actual one. there is, almost always, a discontent simmering for some time that finally boils over - to call the event preceding this boiling over the cause is akin to saying the ripening of the fruit causes the tree. modern conception of causality is similarly a product of a mechanically short, survival-oriented attention span. the seeds of the tree were sown long before the fruit ripened, but we only notice the tree due to it's fruits. in simpler terms, water that reached a 100 degrees was not caused by the water that reached 99 degrees but by the continuity of heat.


- likewise, the onion was split into two long before the knife fell on it, not in the creation of the context that brought about itself and the knife in the same location in the first place, not even in the context that preceded such a context, rather the onion was cut first in memory of the observer, in the first division of difference from pure difference and then in the declinations, declensions, inclinations, and intentions of differences ever since. 


- the difference between the apparent and the real cause of something is the remainder left after an infinte division of memory, for what appears is always already recalled and what appears to remain is that which though recalled, cannot be reconciled in the infinite annals of time.


- this failure of reconciliation is not inherent in the system but a pollutant in the system, one that can only result from a total exhaustion of memory.


- the further away we get from pure difference, the more is memory obscured from its original cause, the more corporeality is needed to recall. 


- if we now return to our original system of pure difference and its first branch, we can see the very creation of space itself, for space is nothing but the memory of the first division of pure difference and difference. it is the memory of itself, in that it was created when pure difference attained at first a distance from itself. structurally, this primary duality happens to be (or could be likened to a high degree to) a Lindenmayer system or L-system for short. this L-system is mutually associative in the first order, and mutually exclusive in the second. Where an 'order' implies a certain duration of observation, the emergent shape is a very primitive two-dimensional mobius strip, or a lorenz-attractor - not yet a butterfly but the dream of one.  


- If the penultimate structure of the first Hausdorff dimension has more parallels in cellular and molecular biology, it is because everything is ultimately an expression of the absolute.


- because the system is mutually associative and reflexive, memory is associative by design. it is its goal to divide itself by an infinity until it reaches zero. the infinity in question here is the re-collection of the causal chain of events that lead upto (but not including) the present recall, with the whole apparatus finally rolling up in a manner not unlike a retractable measuring tape.


- pure difference is precisely an infinite negation divided by itself, the unhinged origami clockwork is the quotient of this division. pure difference is being that remembered everything all at once. 


---

- the transition of the absolute into the relative is not a process, it is as instantaneous and as it is spontaneous. it is also reductive as a substractive synthesis of time. in terms of cellular automata, it is an n-state machine reducing itself to an n-1 state machine. much like the lived experience of being, the absolute observed is contained in a reductive paradigm of self-expression wherein, for each order of observation, an order of expression is subtracted.  


- epistemeic concerns can be laid to rest thanks to this reducibility of chaos into order. pure difference is by definition a subtractive entity, and neither convenes nor is prorogued additively. contained in its negative multitude is every possibility, every story, each of which gets told, is laid bare and made explicit, in formal or experienced time. leaving the original difference that much less different from itself and that much more different from all its expressions.


- had this not been the case, the very question of knowledge would not have been possible. for to know itself means to 'identify' or 'recognize', which is thoroughly and decisively an act of negation. an apple is not a pear, nor a banana, nor is it any other fruit, it is nothing except that which it 'is', or anyway seems to be to the senses.


- nor is knowledge a 'process' of elimination, for that would imply every fact to be confirmed by an infinite negation. one does not have to arrive at the "A=A" by way of comparative negation of the other 25 letters in the alphabet, one is capable of spontaneous recognition as afforded by memory and the signifier.


- the subtraction of everything from everything still leaves behind a zero, which if computer science has taught us anything, is a more appropriate place to start counting. out of the four singularities of zero, inifinity, unity, and duality, zero is unique because it contains the other three. it is simultaneously an infinity, a unity, and a duality all folded up into one. 


- it intrigued me to no end to find out that multiplication can be substituted by addition but division cannot be substituted by subtraction, it is as if there is a crack in the symmetry of arithmatic.  


- addition and subtraction can be substituted for example `3-1 = -1+3` but division cannot really be substituted in the same way using only the operands and completely ignoring the other side of the equation, not even by its counterpart - multiplication. 


- to substitute division and multiplication we need rational numbers, where one must again divide one of the operands by one, leading to more division and a reductio ad infinitum.  


- $x$ x $y$ = $x$ $\div$ $(\frac{1}{y})$


- division thus can be said to the be primary modality of difference, division is the only relation difference has with itself and indeed, this is reflected in its first and only "act" - that of a de-cisive cutting itself into two parts, the former we address as pure difference and the latter as simply difference.


- peering down pure difference is like looking at an infinite division that feeds on itself - like two mirrors faced towards each other, or the feedback from a video screencast - with the caveat that constraints of matter and energy imply that the feedback loop ends at a singularity but in terms of pure abstraction, the simulation goes on timelessly.  


- this self-perpetuating, self-refrential nature of division, coupled with the need for rational numbers to justify itself in additive terms is a matter for some reflection. [see 5] 


- in terms of difference, the dividend is a whole, the divisor is also a whole, and the operation leaves no remainder.

---

- dasein is a product of difference that differentiates, divides perception into innumerable categories and discerns among them  


- it is not because of an injunction of its environment that being appropriates its time as divided into diurnal, weekly, monthly, or yearly cycles, it is its very constitution - the tendency to rent asunder all perception, memory, and time is innate because being itself is an expression of difference.


- in birth the mother divides and in death consciousness is factored out of the biological isness or reification of the body, what is sought in each case is an emancipatory movement "outward", away from the chaos of pure difference and into the balmier shores of memory where difference is sparse.


- the engine of this movement, or in fruedian terms, this "death drive" of the being is in itself a simulation of the first relationship - that of pure difference with difference - and is thus an expression of the relationship of dasein with itself 


- for how does one come to create the "self" one is all too familiar with when one looks in the morning mirror but through a system of differences - an infintely complex scaffolding of masks borrowed first from "das man" and then made malleable, refactored until they resonate with memory.


- the engine of the "death drive" is the same ancient I-Thou relationship difference has with pure difference, and which marxsists symbolize as "master-slave".


- the being thus is its own master and its own slave, and it is not the case that being sometimes dons a mask of its own master and sometimes that of its own slave but every mask it puts on is permeated with this duality. for example smoking, outwardly an act of masterly definace and rebellion, inwardly a slavish addiction to nicotine. 


- the duality of the mask and the duality contained in the "death drive" are actually identical. following our well-established logic of the recursively constituted absolute, it is safe to conclude that death is also a mask of difference.


- the universality of the I-Thou relationship stems from the very basic fact of the first separation of pure difference and difference. in this childless divorce, the completely exhausted pure differnce birthed its only offspring and tasked it to divide further.


- "go forth and divide" seems an oddly satanic instruction to give but we must remember that pure difference is the essence of negation. the locus of our discussion being the flow of power, or authority from the higher to the lower thus creating the first hierarchy. also, the parable with a corollary here is that of adam and eve (aka a banishment) and not that of the christian creation myth. 


- from there onwards, all relationships come to categorize a self-contained hierarchy and every duality came retrofitted with a gradient across which power can flow.
 

- consider the double tragedy of poor difference, ejected from the kingdom of its father who died during the very act of banishing its only child. now consider that we are still living through it.


- thus is the twice-excommunicated, thrice-dead being "geworfen", first into the difference of reality and then into the difference of irreality. first divided out of the imaginary, then divided out of the symbolic and the real. 


- but not only in birth and death, the being follows this pattern of division through each moment, ceaselessly exhaling difference and inhaling pure difference, swallowing and excreting entropy - which is a measure of distance from the original event.


- it would be illogical to assume that first fracturing  and the eventual mitosis of pure difference occured without a mediating agency. for without agency, even a purely chaotic, negatively constitued whole neither could nor would have self-destructed so flamboyantly. that agency is memory.

---

- memory is a difference unable to differentiate itself any further. did that pen cost $9.95 or $5.99? It was $9.95. Were Stella's eyes blue or hazel? what was the sum of all angles of a triangle?


- the limit of pure difference tends towards a singular memory that is difference.


- pure difference as a singularity is an observer sutured as a strange loop forever gazing its own naval, with the duality introduced with the introduction of differernce, it is able to gaze at other parts of its constitution. the introduction of difference is invariably thus an act of violence against the status quo and memory is precisely that violence.


- this introduction of choice in absolute choicelessness is an involuntary inevitability. involuntary because pure difference is a dimension devoid of alternatives and inevitability because it contains all possible configurations of difference, stable and unstable alike. 


- each possible configuration of difference charts out a passage for causality to unfold, a kind of abstract mathematical labyrinth that dasein traverses in memory alone - with each step, each moment in subjective time being a waypoint connected all the way to pure difference via the causality in n-dimensions. 
  

- perhaps now it is clear why we must emphasize on continuity over causality for the latter conveys a very parochial, prescriptive rather than normative, narrowly understood meaning of time. causality is continuity quantified for the purposes of survival, it is eternal return packed and sold as 'time'.  


- not only is all time a perception of memory, (including history and future, this corroborates with the fact that unlike matter, time is infinitely subdivisible) but perception itself is also a memory of difference recalling difference. 


- time is rendered discrete to perception because at the birth of difference, no midwife cut the umbilical cord. thus what connects difference to pure difference is a memory of self-similarity - hence the simulation - although pure difference itself is a collective _differentias recolligentes_.


- memory however, is neither discrete nor infinitely subdivisible. it is self-evident and crytalline, what is remembered is beheld by the mind as undeniable and timelessly true "as if it were yesterday" - what is forgotten is simply obscured by other memories.


- to reiterate, there is no (hierarchical or otherwise) relationship between memory and difference, memory concretely is an instance of difference itself, albeit made palatable through sentience and consciousness into a cognizable whole - a happy hour at the bar, an old favorite song, an orgasm - all objects of memory confirm the subject's existential narrative and give rise to mirages such as the "self", ego, or identity. 


- it is possible for being to die without being born or having lived, as any aborted fetus will confirm. but existence (meaningful or not) assumes memory apriori. whether it is the nebulous, shell-shocked memory of the newborn rapidly learning the new and forgetting the old, or the patchy, selective reminiscences of being on their death beds, there is no getting around Socrates - all knowledge is recall.


- the orthodoxy of entropy paints a misleading picture in that it presents the subjective perception of time as something that is external - something existentially decoupled and emperically isolated from the observer - yet in every instance of dasein, time ceases to be with the observer. 


- time is the road difference takes to reach it's origin, it is the orbit of memory. it is not the road that moves or travels but the traveller. similar to how a "light year" measures distance travelled by light in one year, an "year" is the sum of all recollections made during one revolution of the earth, and so on. 


-  memory is not a generative recording of events but a deterministic playback of differences, it is a post-mortem of dominos already toppled made by sense data to look like they're still falling - just as a twinkling star has long since moved from where the twinkle was broadcasted, the object of memory is always the past, even when one contemplates the future. 


- hume was correct in assuming there being no connecting glue between one moment and the next, the contiguity of seconds is a function of perception alone, the observer and the observed both are memories, interlocked such that the observer appears to move through the observed like a river moves in a channel or valley. the operative word in the previous sentence being _appears_ for in the absolute there is no movement, just pure difference locked in an endless navel-gazing, sort of like an ouroboros.


- there can be another, less abstract and perhaps more helpful metaphor for what was earlier referred to as a division of pure difference into itself and difference. that of peering in, or "looking" inwards, as if through a pin-hole in itself or perhaps through its literal navel - somehow gaining access and just watching itself. upon first looking in pure difference sees nothing else but difference. thus is the first memory born, and starts an infinite process of generalising downwards creating the differences contained in space, time and everything contained within them. it is important to note here that pure difference needn't have a single naval to peer into, but we need to imagine at least one for our own understanding though it does not matter at which point on the circumference the circle begins.


- upon seeing the difference within, pure difference was reminded of itself - extrapolating from this we can conclude that the ultimate ontological purpose of being is to look within and be reminded of itself, or to let its memories lead it to itself. 


- this "seeing" is the synthesis of the imaginary from the real and the symbolic. [see 3]


- out of this negative introspection of difference was born an image.

---



-  "spirit is a bone"
