3.

- difference emergent from a self-alienated pure difference becomes a stable, self-sufficient configuration of negation and the infrastructure for eternal return.


- this configuration is completely virtual and hyperreal in the sense that what was real in pure difference is now extended and continues from it - a disembodied narcissus is born and gazes back from the reflection that defines it and into the entity that is reflected, all cognition is a reminiscence of this original gaze.


- the dense indeterminate singular subject optatively brings forth a sparse object, a shallow and determinate mutation thus creating a bi-directional system of causal inference in what is now a potent gradient of information 


- since there is nothing perceivable or perceptive about this system yet, any descriptive analysis of subject-object juxtaposition can only be binary-linguistic 


- although the system is primarily dual, difference between the two necessitates a boundary or border, or in terms of deconstruction, a "frame".


-  a near-symbolic object and a near-imaginary subject cannot transact (virtually or othwerwise) without the presence of a mediator of some sort, they are entities as disparate as a signal broadcasted for radio and a switched off receiver. 


-  a kind of lemmata thus is apparent, whether seen as Derrida's complicated notion of frame, or more simply, any one of the members of Buber's trinity of I-It-Thou. An agency at the border that turns on the radio and tunes it into a frequency.


-  in the time it has taken for the simple d/pd duality to fract-ure into a d,/,pd trinity all of time has come to pass.  


-  this mediating agency '/' is the positive synthesis between two systemic negations, an interface shared over two parts of a single duality, similar to a day between two nights or an afternoon between two twilights.


- it is a plane of similarity existence stretching across two faces of difference, allowing one to be interpreted as a recall of the other - linguistically the connecting thread between signifier and signified. more concretely, image itself.


- in everyday life, we see the interface at work when we recognize a spelling mistake or identify the original brand from a cheap knockoff. even more obviously, when we identify heads from tails on a coin or differentiate between the obverse and reverse sides of a physical photograph. to be even more incredulous, image is what allows difference to be recognized. without the image no systems of difference may be related, no network of meaning may emerge.


- certainly, image here does not refer to the phenomenology of vision alone. but 'image' is just an apt signifier for the interface because vision is common and easier to understand than other sense data. indeed, for a sentience that did not have eyesight but only aural senses, a bone would be a sound alone and for two-dimensional 'flatlanders', the image would be a two-dimensional record.


- thus, facilitating the relationship between narcissus and his reflection is the surface of the water that affords an infinite recall. 


- an interface is a potential image, whereas an image is the representation of actuated potential. without narcissus' reflection, the surface of water is a negative not too dissimilar from the negative used in photographic film. similarly,  narcissus' face is a negative without recall of its features and the recall itself, the impression or memory of the reflection - which now is so active - is also a negative until the water activates it. through the mediation of the interface the dialectical completes its work. 



- two things of relative importance arise from this understanding - one, the formal difference between potential and active memory and two the dialectical structure of difference itself which is seemingly a difference ensnaring a duality from both constituent sides, without which, one is dealing exclusively in scalar differences. [5]

---


- substance and time are the grammar of difference contextualised by inherent structure, whereas pure difference is a context-free grammar or pure structure of an absence. 


- this flat universe is a part of this mediating, contextualising agency enabling difference to peer into pure difference and vice-versa. it is, at the same time, both the recall of one of the faces of pure difference and an interface inviting that precise face to look and be recalled into existence.


- it is now possible to question the singularity of causal events such as the "big bang", for to give time a singular point of origin implies a corporeality of d/pd except the corporeality of a grammar is extant only in the structures of its expression. 


- expression, in so far as it implies or necessitates a medium cannot be decoupled from the difference that grounds it into its medium without fundamentally altering or disfiguring its import. the word cannot be separated from the spelling, the image from the representation, the colour from the qualia, the digital image from its binary sequence and so on.


- creation thus seems to be in the act of externalising of situated memory, in the projection of "remembrance of things past" onto an opaque field of pure determination giving rise to "time out of mind". 


- Historically, this field of pure determination  appears to be undergoing a diffusion or decentralisation with the proliferation of new mediums, thus, in a Platonic universe, it is only the wall in the cave from the famous allegory, today it is anything from newspapers, radio, or the superlative medium of the digital screen [6]


- the political economy of the observable universe is thus likened to a medium between two negatives of an insatiable consumer and an insatiable producer. with the content of the medium likened to an image of a producer producing and a consumer consuming.

--- 


> 'But,' he said, what does _A Beaumont le Vicomte_ remind you of?'
> 'I have no idea,' she replied
> 'Of, "_A beau cont le vit monte_"'.


- just like fallen dominos, history repeats before dasein reflected in, among other things each rotation of a rosary. although there is an overemphasis in current spiritual literature and poetry about repetition, whereas our emphasis is on the singular here, and the linearity thereof, while asserting the entirely symbolic role of the recursive structure of difference.


- difference, not time is the more accurate unit for memory because of not only apriori concerns but also as there is no absolute measure of time. 


- this can also be illustrated in other ways, such as with the phrase "a trip down memory lane", unfortunately, the _lane_ appears clogged since recall for dasein is hardly as granular as it is for a machine. in that, few can recall what they had for breakfast on a particular date the previous month.


- biological memory is a frail system, relegated to the back-office of science that is more concerned with what happens in the pre-frontal part of the brain. it is highly selective and with enough of a filter for evolutionary "waste" such as trauma, violence and other objectively sour slices of memory.


- what we remember are "the highlights", the outliers and the σ. 


- both the overall trajectory of human life and the present moment in the journey so far can be communicated with mediums, the primus-inter-pares of which is language. 


- in the social sphere, the concept of 'intstitutional memory' is indicative of a more descriptive way to refer to recorded history. superstructures recognize it as a passive record, memory is very much at play in the here-and-now, memory is the catalyst in most situations, often a trigger or an immediate cause for movement or action.


- it would be an overgeneralisation of pre-socratic proportions to claim that everything is a memory [see 6], it would be akin to saying only narcissus and not the environment was reflected in broad daylight. consciousness is greater than the sum of its parts, each of which are available for reflection, and memory forms a significant part of the blend. moreover, one can stop a reverie by waking up, or going for a walk.


- in as much as memory is a thought, it can be recalled as language but not with the same immediacy of emotion each time. outside of philology or some kind of symbology, memory also appears as records of debt such as money and credit, but it is always a subject of a context it was created in. All news is local to some place. 


- like pure difference, there is a particular kind of memory that is context-free, because it has transcended the limitations of context. we find traces of this type of memory in its seemingly chaotic associativity, and in misfirings of normal memory such as during a deja vu. 


- if pure difference is analogous to Aneximander's _apeiron_, transcendental memory is an example of Parmenides' chariot, and though the two seem disparate, there is a hefty connection beyond the above stated and that is structural. indeed, TM _is_ the structure for _apeiron_, it is the _lane_ in _down memory lane_.


- the observer and the observed are tumbling (geworfen) down the same invisible channel, a receptacle or virtual insulation that allows for little determined action beyond the largesse of a parasymapthetic nervous system, with limited clarity of vision over past or future and thin control over the present. 


- access to time is only through thought dressed up in language - whether normative (facts) or prescriptive (value judgements) - thought that is largely a result of conditioning and context. thought is a system of finite state machines operating over a generally reduced number of states over the course of dasein's life.   


- the image of thought is static, remembered thought is visually a still impression that sets in motion a reverie or a conscious excercise in recall, in which case it is usually a series of stills playing over in the mind in polynomial time. regardless of the objective of this mental jogging, whether stepping in the past or in the future, the chariot of memory always tends towards its source, pure difference, however there are biological and psychological limitations, not to mention  limitations of language as an interface in itself.



- the reason there is so much emphasis in spiritual teachings on disabusing oneself of the idea of control, of the closeness of nirvana to a "choiceless concsiousness", or a "surrender" to god suggested is precisely because language cannot will itself through memory beyond a point. no wonder even frued preferred the meta-linguistic states of consciousness such as dreaming for a clearer analysis of the psyche.



- Upon the dawning of TM one is made aware of the fact that it is not Krishna who is a character in one's story, rather the other way around. when we say TM is context-free, that context includes language - for the rare being with TM is like a synesthete, a seer who can relay across time as a whole, using nothing except the present moment.  



- the arrow of time is by and large a thermodynamic illusion and if one follows previously established distinction between continuity and causality, it is possible to see time as deterministically static, the reason memory appears as stills is because motion occurs within time but time itself is motionless. biological and social time also aid to the narrative of entropy, but fail to explain the immortal subject, the attendant consciousness or even the torchbearer of evolution.



-  it is not simply the case that newtonian physics is but one small part of dasein's memory, but scientific progress itself follows the mould of _apeiron_ and through Kuhnian, localised revolutions uncovers the contents of the age in memory. the same is also applicable for all socio-economic activity outside science. 


---


- the greatest impact of psychoanalysis has been in the realm of the subconscious or the unconscious - in highlighting the presence of the lemmata i.e. the duality of the "unknown knowns" and the "unknown unknowns" of the mind - it has been instrumental in proving the existence of a unobserved mediating agency in the observer/observed duality, which hitherto the spiritual literature had summarily dismissed as a thinly disguised identity. 



- the idea is not to admit a summation of the two as a unity in a resigned zen posture but to question how an apparently clear-and-present duality could be a singularity. through the sliver of that unknown, unobserved, that blind spot in consciousness that always already seems to hint towards a greater synthesis not just in math and science but also in daily experiences of the divine and in the faith it takes to go through life. 



-  there is a need to take pin-hole theories with a grain of salt, but that is not enough, we must also then allow the symbolism of next valid explanation to fill in the vacuum left. 


- the unobserved becomes observed via the observer in three phases, the symbolic, imaginary, and real aspects are phenomenologically emergent regardless of order, and while science is great at conducting a post-mortem of what has emerged, it is clueless as to how. 



- The manner in which imaginary twists symbolic and real into a cohesive whole is perhaps best explained by the dictum _"Nec deus intersit, nisi dignus vindice nodus"_. 


- Scientific theories of spontaneous origin are near-sighted in that they fail to account for the sublation of time, palpable in every moment. the manner in which time quietly kills itself before one's eyes from one moment to the next is apparent to anyone with even a rudimentary experience of meditation.


- a lifetime seen as a series of discrete continuations of the present ("a quick succession of busy nothings") in which memory unfolds into a structure of meaningful information that is observed and recorded by the senses in a theological, mechanically rythmic process - revealing to the observer at once, constellations of meaning that can only be corroborated against a history of similarly deigned meanings.


- The rythm of this process is D&G's _desiring-production_. 


- The unobserved is as emergent as the observed, and just as determined as the persistence of the observed such that both _desiring production_ and its production are fused in a chimera pronounced as the will to live. On the flip side, the _will to die_ or Frued's "death drive" is just as much a part of this _desiring production_ and is in fact, a more primary and richer and clearer source rationalisations for action  than its psychoanalytic counterpart for the lived experience is an entropic enterprise forever hurtling towards a definitive disintigration, and away from a definitive integration. 


- In so much as this _desiring production_ does not stop with disintegration (or loss of consciousness in dreams etc) or fulfilment  in the form of progeny, photographs, works of art or records of life, it harvests itself through memory, revealing in the movement a hitherto unobserved, spiral and conch-like  stucture of living memory flattened into the symbol σ. 


- Thus, if image is a desiring production, so is the image of movement, and by extension movement itself - and the cause of this movement in the otherwise placid chaos of pure differnce is also desiring production. The creation of difference, which is clearly an isotope of pure difference is precisely due to this rythm of the unseen.


- the emergence of order is fashioned after the emergence of a fantasy, where a fantasy is simply an unadorned desire substituing lack for lack, reality is desire followed-up to a surplus. it is surplus desire that brings forth the pyramid from the desire of a pyramid, the nuclear submarine from the dream of one etc. it is desiring production responsible for both the "deus" and the "machina", albeit this combo seldom makes an appearance as a singularity in memory - in psychoanalytic terms TM is one such combination, produced only when a "dignus vindice nodus" appears.


  ---


  - desiring production is the process of stacking differences as desire at every step, where each difference is a representation of pure difference aspiring towards the infinite malleability in every direction and across all its dimensions. 
 
 
  - There is no better example of this process and its production than language itself, no wonder there are strong parallels for it in computing wherein a computer languages are nowadays created using multiple levels of intermediate representations.


- this 'stacking' is how difference as an intermediate representation of pure difference causes the text but also the subtext and on occasions, a supertext. it is also how software produces and reproduces itself.


- desire thus infinitely stacked against itself turning chaos to order producing first language then the music of time and pressure which ends up turning coal to diamonds at which point the desiring production starts desiring itself.


 - In so far as TM is an instance of memory desiring memory, it is an aspect of this self-refrential attribute of desiring production.


---