4.

- Memory as a topological invariance of pure difference unfolding as difference, culminating in the eidetic determinism of an n-polytope (hitherto referred to as Adwaita in Hinduism) with an observable universe as each of its faces in any given dimension, affording peaks and troughs on the crease that give a vantage point for observers astute and discerning - and transcendental memory, being one such peak (which may be found in myths related to holy mountains such as mount Meru) - where one can see the disbursal blueprint of memory along the die of difference bring us to the final declension of the theory, which is sociological. 


- It is so because the time that allows for no gaps is simply a sociological phenomenon, as observing anyone who wakes up after years of being in a comatose state can confirm. It is memory that is gapless and fills the homogenity of pure differnce densely, and difference sparsely.


- Whether in a coma, dreaming in deep sleep, lost in a reverie, or under the influence of anesthesia or other drugs, what goes on is not time but memory. 


- Upon death, memory simply leaves an empty channel of difference which is filled in by reminiscences of other memorising machines until the channel finally runs dry, leaving behind wadis that successing differences may or may not rush into.


- The logic behind animal (or human) sacrifices is precisely to flood these arid channels of difference with the memory of a recently desceased, recently diverted flow of difference. But while the instinct is correct, sacrifices fail to take into consideration the volition, sovereignty, and weigthed momentum of determinism driving the difference which is the sacrificed soul.


- Pure difference is pure chaos, but difference is not. Each successive difference is a step away from disorder and into order until a singularity is achieved as a return to pure difference. The existence of difference informa the difference between normative and descriptive, reality and fantasy, fact and value, good and evil, all of which kick into play the validity of moral and ethical concerns.


- Indeed, for normal channels of memory the stoic dichotomy of "preferred good" follows from this common sense and the dictum of "choosing the lesser evil" prevails as a politically correct way of driving on the n-dimensional superhighway of difference.


- This road is punctuated with common and uncommon exits, and enlightened memories tend to take those as often as they can, or are deemed to. Not all such exits from memory lanes lead to TM, but those that do are worth the diversion, and even ones that don't offer a more scenic and serene route. 

---