> _Lord, truly thy decree is first among gods.\
Say but to wreck or create; it shall be. \
Open thy mouth: the Images will vanish! \
Speak again, and the Images shall be whole!_


- If history decomposes into images and not stories, then myth is the "royal road" to understanding the production and dissemination of said images, enabling our egress. _Why_ myth? because for one it penetrates deeper as a narrative, enabling a broader, richer field of vision as compared to, say, mere legends and stories. For another, there is beauty in myth that lasts from the moment of its birth to its very dissipation into the river of images that is history at large. A beauty that sacrifices itself rather easily upon the rotating blades of empire, and thus is readily chopped into individual images along the ranges of every symmetrical axis. But _what_ even is myth under this lexical microscope? simply stated a myth is an interregnum in production, not a halting of the presses but a scandal that is only yesterday's news. Already we can see the formative characteristics of all awakenings inside such a break in the weather over nowhere - a place where only nothing lasts forever. A myth is a small segment of mono in an otherwise stereo recording, an ordering of memory arranged by the recessive hand of the arranging entity.
  

- Our concern with myth here isn't ontological but _epistemethical_, of course the escape from entropy needs to be ethical apriori, but also epistemological because it is a matter of not just mere evolution but transcendence.


- To make this caper a successful one, we need to begin with the end in mind, but the plurality of myth in history makes this confusing - we need a myth stripped of as much historical baggage as possible. A myth that is as fresh as its first retelling and brand new on every subsequent telling. Risking prescriptive morality, the only such model of myth that comes to mind is a pilgrimage. Outside of pilgrimage, the only pure myth far removed from any agency is a dream, but dreams are brittle, fragile, and inherently unstable and thus don't lend very well to exhaustive analysis. This isn't to say that the comparison is analog versus digital, both dreams and myth are still analog machines but while a reverie is the uncontrollable fantasy behind power windows, a myth unfolds not unlike the granular, manual adjustment of a crank shaft in the car door from within the moving vehicle - the slower, more mindful adjusting of air intake until the window is down all the way. This mindfulness is needed not only for one's own safety through this transcendental enterprise but also, and more importantly, out of humility for one is after all fleeing a crime scene with dead bodies and machine carcasses strewn as far as the eye can see - without entropy there could be no escape from it, so a measure of deference is due throughout.


- A pilgrimage is the the de-facto standard of all mythical progress. A slow slavish vertical movement across horizontal rungs is apparent not only in the linear ascent and descent over the holy mountain (the window pane going up and down) but even in the circumnavigation (rotation of the crank shaft) of shrines across religions. The only difference being that in the circumnavigation the rungs appear to be helical.