> The real hero is always a hero by mistake; he dreams of being an honest coward like everybody else. If it had been possible he would have settled the matter otherwise, and without bloodshed. He doesn't boast of his own death or of others'. But he does not repent. He suffers and keeps his mouth shut; if anything, others then exploit him, making him a myth, while he, the man worthy of esteem, was only a poor creature who reacted with dignity and courage in an event bigger than he was.


- The cause of all pilgrimages is a heroism, to which its objectives irrelevant. The cause might be anything from offering prayers to please a deity to finding the holy grail but it is not the cause that travels. Infact, the cause is the summit, a stationary object of seeking. What travels is the seeking, the drive itself. If the world is your decay, and the world is that which is sought, what travels is the decay; when the drive is radioactive, the decay is radioactive, and when the drive is divine, what travels can be called a transcendental decay - like that of the isrāʾ and miʿrāj. A myth without a hero is the literal nothing that is pure difference, the first fold out of the absolute which brings to bear from within it the relative is the identification or recall of the hero and the genesis of all geneses. The exile of extension out of the unextended is the original myth and everything that follows an incidental abstraction of eternal return (no surprises in finding out that the eternal _return_ is also an _exile_) - this is the original misfortune of all things extended and the reason for repentance. Luckily, the way tracing entropy to its roots is as straight and narrow as the way from 'I' to 'Thou'.


- The pilgrimage as a movement is itself a system of repetitions and differences, to rescue pluto _without_ going to neptune. The repetitions here are the acts of commission and the differences the acts of omission. Meaning alone does not suffice for communication to have occured - a tree means what it means - motion occurs in the context of grammar, in what the tree does or does not do. The arbitrary context of grammar is rooted back in the system of meanings creating a prespective or image. The decay travels along a path perforated like lanes on a highway or a railway track interspersed with slabs and fasteners or more traditionally, sleepers and ballasts.