

1) The sheer amount of grit I have for sticking with a particular problem allows me to explore technology beyond most "engineers" out there. As a result, I am able to take the prevalent cutting edge and fit it into bleeding edge. Creating innovations at scale and pace.
2) My unique background allows for fresh, domain-agnostic perspective. The "freshness" of perspective cannot be summed up by the diversity factor alone. But certainly have a unique way of programming, debugging, and tooling that pushes the boundaries and raises the occassional exasperated puritan eyebrow.
3) My experiences in media and content strategy allow me to communicate more clearly and explicitly about than anyone I have come across, something perhaps you have already guaged from these points. These experiences also give me a better handle to understand any business and business model.
4) High emotional quotient and spiritual quotient allow me to gel well with international teams and ship without friction or politics. 



# 0. Writing

[[glimpses of divinity/index]]
[[singularity/index]]

# 1. Projects

## 1.1 Inversepolarity / ZenTube
- [ ] testing coverage 50-80%
  - [ ] mocks
- [x] release v 1.1.0
- [x] release v 1.1.1
- [ ] release v 1.2.0
  - [ ] greyscale 
  - [x] emoji remover
    - [ ] in webassembly -> [[wasm/index]]
  - [ ] movie upsell
  - [ ] shorts page
  - [ ] filter



# 2. Ideas to explore

## 2.1 A portfolio/notebook for p5 sketches

---

## 2.2 ASCIINEMA to Youtube

---

## 2.3 Browser Extension for :
  - meditation / pomodoro
  - gists
  
---
## 2.4 Geckoview browser for android
- [x] diving into browser construction without having more than an introduction to kotlin
- [x] understanding basic building process and IDE
  more at [[android]]

---

## 2.6 RN Mobile App

---

## ✅ 2.5 AI Chatbot for singularity

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G7iLllmx4qc&list=WL&index=1&t=51s
- privateGPT 
- see [[llm]] for more


---

## 1.2 Slip
- [ ] complete in C
  - [x] [[chomsky hierarchy]]
- [ ] port to Rust


---

## 1.3 Inversepolarity / Thursday

- [ ] use https://textual.textualize.io/
- [x] multiprocess raytracer
  - [x] understand multiprocess vs multithreading
- [x] study and organize code
  - [x] venv
  - [x] linter setup
  - [ ] document codebase
- [x] setup testing / TDD
  - [ ] learn pytest
- [ ] ui sketches
- [ ] add multiprocessing
- [ ] add ui 
- [ ] RC 0.0.10

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[glimpses of divinity/index]: <../../../src/journals/tyrna get murdered/glimpses of divinity/index> "index"
[singularity/index]: <../../../src/journals/tyrna get murdered/singularity/index> "index"
[wasm/index]: ../../../src/dev/web/wasm/index "index"
[android]: ../../../src/dev/mobile/android "the first line of code"
[llm]: <../../2024/dev/ai ml nn dl/llm> "llm"
[chomsky hierarchy]: <../../../src/dev/languages/compiler/chomsky hierarchy> "chomsky hierarchy"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"