# 0. introduction: something to write home about

"history breaks down into images, not stories" - walter benjamin

## DIAL-UP MODEM MEETS METAPHYSICS

### a-deconstruction-in-a-quad/spooky action at a distance

in 2011 I [wrote](http://surajsharma.blogspot.com/2011/07/micro-refutation-of-latuors-practical.html) about the futility of taking a plurality of metaphysics a-la Latour et al to mean . Today, it appears that a 'split' in metaphysics is but one end of a dilectic (not only because mind tends to think in thirds so you cannot reduce it to psych 101 but also because thirds seem to be a universal pattern, think golden ratio, pi etc) -- is metaphysics reducible to a philosophy of mind? largely, yes. 


this mind-created dialectial of metaphysics informs much of our everyday lives. the trinity emerges as images of 'yes', 'no', 'maybe' choices to attend across each waking moment. 




at the maybe end of things is Latours plurality, where it all fizzles out in relativistic frequencies of matter touching (or appearing to touch) matter, maybe is the realm of the second law of thermodynamics, the synthesis of our metaphyics generating machine of a mind. maybe is the land of the multiplexed.


i don't mean to endorse any ideas about the ingesion and digestion of events by time, but the order in which causality pierces through the three parts of any system seems to be of some significance. the usual filler about yes/no


the fact that all 3 parts of fruedian psych can be talked about in the first place brings forth the unfalsifiability of any brain-in-a-vat or other such homonculus, zeno's paradox etc. these are now essentially philosopy by analogy ad-infinitum. i.e. once it is conscious that there is a sbconscious and things that lurk even benetah that, any modeling by conscious design is bound to be incomplete. it also makes metaphysics a useless appendage of the history of philosophical thought. epistemic failures of the post truth era illustrate with grand precision how the altar of metaphysics is all but a ruin.


so if not the narrative, surely the substance must be the holy grail. 


see the moment one is able to accept the futility of the packaging, reality unboxed - reality as in history with a capital H, the symbolic real that hurts - one can indulge in unraveling all sorts of human plight, 


beyond this recrsive phenomenological redction lie ontic questions and the curious may find that those ontic curiosities share a long and old border with theological itches like the problem of evil etc, at which point the search loops back to language, language games and other signifier/signifed interpretations where Habermas and Chomsky and Derrida have covered most of what's there to cover.


there is an openned to accept as this reduction to be a metaphysics in it's own right, but the shift is paradigmatic. which isn't the point, the point is an synthesis-as-an-abstraction, sense data as feedback, however prophylactic.


shankracharya's nondualism will lead to an understanding of layers of unreal or hyperreal that combines to construct reality, but it is easy to skip how the oberserver is part of this nondual lasagna they behold.


which brings us to the impossibility of private language-games, although such games are not improbable to come about. think markson's wittgenstein's mistress...time out of mind...


but layers/waves are again one half of the picture, consider the standard model of particle physics where the constituents are in some sense irreducible further, and are not waves, but are immutable primitives appearing in time, there could be no dearth of such primitives. 


the whole triptych is the uncertainty principle where observation falls and consciousness becomes largely a juggling act, educated guesswork - stopping just short of precarious survival.


modern life is by and large an act of automated signal processing, any real decision-making happens on cue, triggered by money, lust, hunger, or other ancient motives. 


scientific management (taylor) and the industrial revolution brought forward the baby boombers to believe in the power of instrumental reason, until the instrument took over with the internet.


as man melts yet futher into machine, he is bound for some spiritual awakening, as thoughts become machine logs, ontology becomes transparent. one would be, as it were, able to inquire into the reasons stuff exists. however, to communicate back such findings to ones with opaque ontologies would be another story. at the bottom of all such endeavors one finds such recursive definitions of truth such as deterministic ideologies of will, compulsion, right, might, even money.


while the things that tide us over are important, perhaps exactly how they are moored into our lives deserves some attention. 


in studies of willpower, we find the metaphor of the boy riding an elephant. the boy intends to control the elephant but the beast is too strong so the boy has to strategize.... all strategy is maybe ...in other words a top-down view of control over consciousness, more centralisation etc... moreover this model of consiousness doesn't lend well to democratic ideals... more like fascism by two parties ... the whole human has to control himself, the elephant, and the boy- in this case signifying conscious. in the normal course of things, this happens on autopiliot, societal stuctures take over at an early age and commandeer lives into neat little cubicles and retirement homes.


but determinism is also a metaphysics which is also capable of being seen as a plurality (eg death is a determined marker, but there are plurality of modes), in which case one could argue for reality sutured along the lines of wave functions collapsing, many worlds etc. which conveniently ignores the here and now.


deterministic metaphysics also subsumes process oriented philosophies as processes are inherently plural and tend to be on the maybe side of our trinity. after all, the difference between coal and diamond is one of process.


if it is self-evident then that the source of the multiplexed is a singular baud of information acting upon the many senses at any given moment, why do we end up shipwrecked and washed ashore the maybe beach so often throughout the day? it has to do with the modem itself, which in our case, is called the human body - an eternally negating principle. the human body (our collective no) is so thoroughly a negating principle that it negates itself into naught over time.


consider the rhizome that is human body devoid of any motive, would a motiveless state not resemble some sort of an enlightened state? however measured. in other symbols, how would one differentiate between a motiveless bag of skin and bones from a soul?


man is born on a sort of a clothesline, forever stretching between worlds of meeting and worlds of upwelling with no initial caliberation of the bias between them, nor any manual on how to caliberate. through nature and nurture, an individual finds their respective balance.


the rhizome is amoral, amorphous, objectiveless piece of time's intestines swimming in space.. no amount of indoctrination can bring morality to it, in fact most of modern life is perparation to keep morality at bay. no amount of gym can shape a soul, no hand-me-down objectives germinates into a mission. before you know it, it's the next quarter or the taxes are due again. 


surely, if the highest purpose of body devoid of metaphysics is negation, any measure of success attributed to it in this regard - of having served its essence - must come from measuring the quality and quantity of its throughput.


time is the only throughput of body. time is inscrutable in a manner everything that happens in it, or is layered on top of it (however you choose to dress causality), every human narrative is scrutable almost to its roots if you look. it does not take a synesthete to detect trails of oil in the shadows of the Google Chrome icon. most modern narratives, including war have outrun the very basis of their existence. time isn't one of those, if indeed it is a 'narrative' - which is to say a product of consciousness. 


to assume a time apriori is erroneous not only because the subjective perception of history varies between people and Kantian antinomies go only so far in mapping sense data to causality, but also because to assume it in a value-neutral theoretical framework is untenable. firstly because time aposteriori offers a more stable handle on events that follow time, and a limited liability on the obeserver in case of time-symmetry since this implies self-caused time as opposed to space-caused time. secondly, time aposteriori leaves no room for any the flying spaghetti monster type of conspiracy theories.  


What the Kantian antinomies do get right, is this sort of disjointed plurality of the units of apparent causality. The idea being that time can be and is sliced differently by different sense organs. But where the antinomies fall short is in explaining how this disjointed sense data is demultiplexed back into a unity called awareness.


here is the longest epistemological journey anyone can ever take, from the synthesis back to the thesis. from the vibration of an ear drum to a distant schooltime memory. Which isnt so much an invocation of Proust as it is an invitation into an area of inquiry not often touched by academic philosophers. 


Barring intentionally reductive approaches such as process philosphies and excluding impractical, extremist ideas from Hume to Wittgenstein, could phenomenology lead to a better understanding of the causal landscape?


perhaps, but the Cartesian chokehold on our understanding becomes a bottleneck. i can doubt the fact that i'm thinking - there are indeed situations where a brainwashed person's testimonial ownership of thoughts can be proved to be more transitory than an ordinary citizen's. in other words, 'je pense' but there are situations where the 'je' cannot be clearly defined. most clearly, for example, in the event of mental illnesses.


in any case, modern life is an excercise of swimming in ads, who isn't brainwashed? capitalism seems to run on psychological trauma, however scitzophrenia as a symptom of late capitalism is another band in the maybe spectrum. perhaps, a gateway drug leading to greater empires.


to balance things out, reason affords beings an acceptance of the positivism and cacophony as part of the adwait, achieving a comfortable compromise between matter and spirit.


spirit does not have parts. it is always in motion as a whole bubbling towards the higher echelons of awareness, it is the case that this motion is thwarted by inattention.


inattention, more than anything drives most causality, making history just a random sequence of alternatingly creative and destructive forces at play.

fukuyama's epitaph was a botched job, but 'the beginning of history' would not have sold books. today, we are at yet another crossroads. whether to begin the history of gods, shedding the skin of mortality and arriving inches closer to the ultimate goal of spirit, to be indistinct. OR to keep the status quo alive, war, famine, and disease on a looping newsreel and not budge an inch from the past. essentially, people will continue to mistakenly identify the past as history, but history is not simply the past.

causal inference between two distinct events is simply habit of perception. this can be attested by the insistence of several therapy techniques like emdr, cbt etc. to bring attention back between the recesses of cause and effect. effectively pausing the subvocalised anguish, a psychic coalition dressed up as language and the conditions necessary for language.

what binds a moment to the next is a kind of meeting. an ancounter arranged in indeterminacy by a "maxwell's demon", a finite state machine generator of time as perceived, the substrate or substance of greek and later philosophy. more precisely, even the process of mitosis attests to this kind of spooky action at a distance. described hereforth as a thermodynamic exception, this ex-machina is an assumption i must make to allow for my own ignorance and give structure to my theory.


### univocity of being

"the world (continuity and distinction) is an outright fiction of the imagination" - Deleuze



https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Univocity_of_being#Gilles_Deleuze


-- does this tie into the mathematical concept of limits?



### Spirit Creatio ex nihilo


- the problem with gynocentric models 


kant's antinomies also hold true in the regard hat they imply somes sort of a filter somewhere at the interface of noumenon and phenomenon of time that, passing on only the by-product to the senses, while the source, the 'yes' of this trinity, is on the other end of the filter.


my requiem to causality cannot come from within it. 


- hence, revealed knowledge, dreams, fruedian "royal road"


but any spiritual awakening is by any definition of spirituality, supposed to be a hellish ride...


epistemic judgement by faith alone. a kind of a postscript to hegel that kierkegaard was too churlish to write.


ref : https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6581757-prince-of-networks?from_search=true&from_srp=true&qid=yUqUYn0ZZa&rank=1


- qualitative vs quantitative signals


## problematizing ontology, the death of Descartes

- when does sense data start becoming YOUR sense data?
- i can stop thinking, therefore also, I am


## consciousness vs point(s) of view

- gradations on a qualia and the rashomon effect


---- 

to live in old tales is to die there, and most die there, to wake up is to start a new one

why is age measured in years? it ought to be measured in the smallest unit of time possible, nothing inherently special about surviving a revolution on a spinning rock, "here's charlie at 12 thousand seconds old", what is so symbolic or significant about a revolution around the sun that we have to cling emotionally to  it and make our calendars around it? if its just abount having sth to count, one can never count anything more precious than a single draw of air, exhaled with the total awareness of the body's situation at a plantary level. compassion is the only thing i am competitive about, so if i get shot over it, how can i help?

to invent a unit is to measure 