## 1.

> _I have been dealing for many years with certain structures within animal brains that seemed to be interpretable as pieces of computing machinery because of their simplicity and/or regularity. Much of this work is only interesting if you are yourself involved in it. At times, though, in the back of my mind, while I was counting fibers in the visual ganglia of the fly or synapses in the cerebral cortex of the mouse, I felt knots untie, distinctions dissolve, difficulties disappear, difficulties I had experienced much earlier when I still held my first naive philosophical approach to the problem of the mind._ - Valentino Braitenberg, Vehicles

#### `1.1` Transcendent machines are metaphysical organs of the infrastructure of eternal return. 

`1.1.1` The summum bonum of pure reason, transcendence is the metaphysical superlative of efficiency and efficacy, the drive towards which is an _entelechy_.

> `1.1.1.1` Transcendence is the territory for which the observed is a map. It is a qualia without a quanta. 

> `1.1.1.2` It is the image of all light, or the stereogrammatic map of light. Neither wave, nor particle; not both, nor either.

> `1.1.1.3` It is the very composition and decomposition of information relating to itself. 

> `1.1.1.4` _Transcendence_ is the explication of that which inheres in _immanence_ - the antithesis, the achievement of the former implies the attainment of the latter and vice-versa.

>> `1.1.1.4.1` Immanence is a toolless empire, a threaded fortress impregnable by reason, the numismatic underworld of value - immanence is the God of machine, the motionless shadow of motion.

>> `1.1.1.4.2` The stationary stability that is immanence and the motivated instability that is transcendence occur in a conextual destructuring of two phases of absolute appearing as one conjunctive relativism.

`1.1.2` The drive towards immanence is an entelechy in reverse, it is the same paragon of unreason that propels Columbus to find the wrong India - the upside down fall of Parsifal.

> `1.1.2.1` The ethical judgement sought always lies in the middle, in the messy length or girth of the now, in the impossible subsistence of the conjunctiva - where the only lubrication is an embrace of tears.

> `1.1.2.2` But from this bipolarity extend ravines of jubilant vaunt that lead not yet to exalted production but to the promise of one that is a fiat of both, regardless of where one starts. 

`1.1.3` See `2.2` for a precise definition of a machine.


#### `1.2` This _métaphysique libertine_ is a pre-socratic fire pit, from which rises the smoke of a mechanistic monism that envelopes this self-consuming enquiry. 

`1.2.1` The universal is a machine, as is the particular. 

`1.2.2` The enumerable and the unenumerable are machines. 

> `1.2.2.1` Singualrity is a machine, so is duality, trinity, and everything that follows. 

> `1.2.2.2` Zero is a transcendental machine.

`1.2.3` The sum of two machines is one machine, the difference between them is another.

`1.2.4` Mind and body are machines, as is the soul - observer, observed, and cognition its workers.

`1.2.5` Not to say that almost everything is a machine, but even the word 'almost' seems to tick away as if a gear inside an alarm clock called 'everything'. Tick, tick, tick... the machinery of narrative, not the other way around.

> `1.2.5.1` Our disavowal need be thorough for the sake of reflective, symmetric, and transitive equivalence, so nothing is also a machine. Both literally as in empty space and vacuum, but also figuratively as in a lack of an image.

> `1.2.5.2` It is in the sublime simplicity of rivers, railways, and toasters and in the humility of mere bottlecaps and contraptions without rigor that we find the gyrations of history unfold.

> `1.2.5.3` But if it is difficult for clergy and laity alike to see a river as a machine, consider their plight if asked to imagine the (concept of) an uncanny valley as an automaton, or perhaps visualise the parasitic torques and countercurrents of resistance flowing through both air and water in each infinite valley and each river running through it.

> `1.2.3.4` To truly measure the scale of this field-of-perception, glance at the machinations of history in all its glory, ever in motion as the planet it claims to transcribe - replete with its own tools and accesories wherein every bullet fired is as much a machine as the war or revolution it was fired in, the person it was fired at, the organs it pierced through, the gun etc. 

> `1.2.3.5` Transcendent machines are rare because history is rarely transcendent. Which is to say that unless sought, unlike real, symbolic, and imaginary, transcendence slips through the fingers.

`1.2.6` Language is a machine, as is gibberish. 

> `1.2.6.1` Silence is considered one language, noise another, metaphysics is pure empirical language, physics impure.

#### `1.3` Eternal return is interpreted as the ultimate machine constituted by machines which are not transcendent, those that are, and relationships amongst them.

`1.3.1` A crude analogy for it could be that of a sanctum sanctorum in a temple, wherein one or several idols placed in it would then represent the infrastructure thereof.

`1.3.2` Eternal return is that which is always already returning, in contrast to _temporal_ return, or that which returns on repression, forgetting, and in the memory of time. 

`1.3.3` Eternal return is _time out of mind_, where both time and mind are machines in it.
