#### 3.7 'entelechy' is a model for transcendence as work, the force behind entropy, and the _raison d'être_ for _self_



3.7.5 the degree of entelechy ranges from the temporal to eternal. shiva's _damru_, draupadi's infinite _saree_, the crucifix, buddha's silent sermon and angulimala's mala, chariots of medea and parmenides etc. are all transcendental machines with near perfect entelechy, whereas one's lucky charm is imbued with mere superstition and temporal entelechy and is thus not a transcendental machine.

3.7.5.1 only its origin pure difference has a state of total entelechy, difference cannot achieve this state but can only ever tend towards it such that, the further away from such a state, the more entropic a system/config/machine is.

3.7.5.2 history has no dearth of examples of machines that aspired towards perfect entelechy but for whatever reason (usually _mauvaise foi_ or _ressentiment_) failed and are remembered for their efforts in transcendental heroism. the titanic and icarus' wings are just two cases in point.

3.7.6 entelechy is one word for the phrase _'as far as one is concerned'_, begging the question - how far exactly? which overturns all aposteriori logic on its stomach for the magnitude isn't a distance.

3.7.6.1 the magnitude rather is more like a field of flat potential, a timeless flux of capacity for infinite expression. the whole spectrum of what is not just feasible but also possible bearing in mind that impossibilities are the imperial unit of existence - what exists is mostly nothing.

3.7.6.2 the paradox of the existence of each atom being mostly empty space isn't metaphysical but simply logical.

3.7.6.3 outside of abstractions it is hard to achieve an entropy-free definition of entropy, but entelechy is a good start. the key here being that neither is a law, both are _postures_ (as in zen mindfulness), different states of practice.

3.7.6.4 in the immediacy of human lives, this can be said to favour drives towards any kind of "_immortality_", and trends in longevity and "antifragility" seem to confirm.


3.1 work is the output of bP and dP but no machine exists for output alone, in transcendental machines also, work is the by-product of bP and dP but is no longer subject to the same state space thus has acquired the more meaningful state of work'


3.2 at the same time, no machine works for transcendence alone, though some machines are more dedicated towards it than others 


3.3 work for each machine is localised to its connections, the ontological purpose of its survival is the performance of its work


3.3.1 although a lot of machines explore their environments and interfaces, sufficiently complex machines can access new epistemic categories through work


3.3.2 a _modality of cognition_ is a machine comprising of sense data and memory, it lives in states of emotion, feelings, sensations etc and is always already connected at least to one structural and functional identity through the connection called variously _self_, _ego_, _identity_, _sovereignty_ etc. 

---


#### 4.4 states are broadly contained in two definitions, those of desiring production and biophysical production.

4.4.1 elaborating on 1.4.2.1, state is a snapshot of extant connections internal and external to the machine. this is to say that a state is an image exemplified by the phrases _a picture of health_, _picture perfect_, _state of affairs_ etc.

4.4.2 the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems are the flagbearers of biophysical and desiring production respectively. their productions being images of rest, digest, fight, flight - which generally become images of greed and fear.


#### 4.5 

4.5.1 without the imaginary, the symbolic quickly rolls up and passes on into its abstract self. to say that purely symbolic systems, or pure symbols are devoid of meaning would be incorrect, for both meaning and lack thereof rely on image produced between machines signifying and signified. 

4.5.2  a pure symbol is an image in gestation wherein even to make a guess about it is futile without some symbolic framework like language. a pure symbol is an image _without_ an image. radio and television static, encrypted data in transit, a group of stars that form no known constellation etc serve as good approximations.

4.5.3 the imaginary then filters this dark, semi-differentiated primordial signal and brings it to light, producing image. interstingly, because the imaginary is a bi-directional filter between the real and the symbolic, a pure imaginary machine (image imagining itself) isn't possible. thus, imaginary numbers are real, fictions are rooted in identifiable concepts, dreams and surrealism are intelligible if not logical, and one understands emotions in animals and newborns. 

4.5.4 it is no surprise then, that the imaginary also filters the real down to the symbolic as much as it filters symbolic into the real. caricaturisation of real pepole and events, diagrams and blueprints, photography etc. are born thus.

4.5.5 though the imaginary both amplifies and abates, it is on its own a zone of wholehearted negation and negation of negation. one can thus have _imaginary-symbolic_ (an arbitrary glyph that serves as the central symbol for a made-up religion in a cartoon show), _imaginary-real_ (a cartoon show about the crucifix) but never _imaginary-imaginary_.

4.5.6 it is indeed possible to have an _imaginary-transcendent_ but it turns into a symbol almost immediately upon discovery and thus becomes real. sometimes there may be a lag in proving the existence of the higgs boson, but the mathematical symbols had proved it long before. if one happens to discover a machine _imaginary-transcendent_, chances are it is already symbolized and real elsewhere.


#### 4.6 stateless machines are like refugees without an established state or with a state that hasn't been deemed canon by the network yet.

4.1 the finite state space includes 'error' states, albeit error states themselves are capable of achieving transcendence, and thus becoming error' states


4.2 it is thus possible for a machine to achieve transcendence through an error in bP or dP or through relations and connections or the misfiring thereof 

4.2.1 it is also possible to achieve transcendence through acts of ommision or comission of a connected machine 


4.3 becoming transcendent _may_ connect the machine' to other transcendent machines 

--- 


6.1 Ours is a way out of non-transcendent states and connections, from within the framework of the human machine and doing this at scale and speed hitherto unheard of in ethical or hyper-ethical behaviours. Thus increasing the speed of human evolution by orders of magnitude, while discounting for, avoiding, and proactively preventing states of error including violence, state and market failures, suicide, wars etc.


6.2 armed with only the prior requirements 5.1 and examples of superlative states like death, we can hypothesize the emulation of similar state transitions and also the existence of other such states 


6.3 a state is a unit of all information about the machine at a given time, it can be a unit of particular subsystem (respiratory, cardiac etc) or of the overall - states and stateful configurations give insight into the overall being 


6.4 there is a state hierarchy as well, denoting both external and internal environments. 


6.5 these state hierarchies form the cornerstone of decision making states, which themselves are arranged in a treelike configrations such that there are higher states of being and wellness as well as lower, and some decisions are superior to others 

6.5.1 decision-making machines crunch out facts and values as work, which is their output relaying into other machines and changing their states via action.

---

10.1 classification of states 

