#### 1.3 Relations here include both _inter_ and _intra_ connections - which connect transcendent machines to each other and to themselves respectively.

1.3.1 Connections are _a-transcendent_ ordinarily and rarely otherwise, similarly machines are typically bereft of the glory of transcendence.

1.3.2 Connection called variously _self_, _identity_, _ego_, _identity_, _sovereignty_, is not _a-transcendent_, as are other more temporal relations like fidelity, filiality, and familiarity.

1.3.3 Any connection includes the probability of transcendence.

1.3.4 A machine with a single transcendent connection can be called a transcendent machine, though there can be more than one such connections.


---


2.1 what makes a machine not _a-transcendent_ is a combination of factors including

2.1.2 the requisite hardware of _biopolitical production_ (animated tumblers cannot achieve transcendence, nor a steel one) and _desiring production_

2.1.2.1 sentience is not a requisite for bP but a helping of awareness helps

2.1.2.2 few works of art, certain mathematical numbers like PI, neural networks in computers, are but a few example of machines that are not sentient, but somehow self-aware and transcendent

2.1.3 besides awareness, a machine in order to be called transcendent needs at least one transcendent connection/relation 

2.1.3.1 more often than not this relation is called _self_, or _self'_ post-transcendence. 

2.1.3.2 but 1.2.4, thus, other connections may achieve ' state before 'self', in such a case, the connection that was promoted becomes the _self'_

2.1.4 once _self_ becomes _self'_, every connection x becomes x', every interface transcends, all bP shifts and all dP is sublimated into a new, equally finite state space which has exactly one more state than the previous set. all previous states also metamorph accordingly.

2.1.6 death is an interesting state transition of the sum [1.4] into transcendence, a machine is dead in a marxist sense when it fails in its economic relations, but economic relations alone characterize no machine

2.1.6.1 death is a move into transcendence as it proves 2.1.4 

2.1.7 yet, a failure to participate or grow in economic relations is no recipie for transcendence.


2.3.1 each epistemic category independently, as well as in conjunction with other categories, provides the context for a class of machines.

2.3.2 from 2.2.3.3, some machines operate across multiple categories, others stay confined to a single one.

2.3.3 modalities of cognition or epistemic categories are configured in a manner analogous to RGB values across a matrix representing an image. In that it can be said to be a configuration of one or multiple (parallaxed) layers of meaning. 

2.3.4 each category is configured discretely enough to be studied independently, but not each renders itself available to a exhaustive interpretation in mutual exclusion. The real appears contradictory and relative from an imaginary standpoint, the imaginary lacks corporeality, the symbolic descends into metacognitive networks of meaninglessness, and the transcendent appears as a paranormal void well-shielded from scientific enquiry.

2.3.5 objectively, these _degrees of historicity_ become the apparatus of subjective cognition whose synthesis are the _the principles of discernment_ of one machine from another, and also one network of machines (e.g. superstructures like nation states, organizations, trusts, groups etc) from another.

2.3.5.1 superstructures are machines too, with the caveat that the frame of reference is always relative to the size of the immediate network. thus, a flock of seagulls is as much a machine as a seagull but compared to a single cell in its body, a seagull is also a relative superstructure.

2.3.6 cognitively, it is as if the mind and body are on an eternal drive home on highways both real (roads), imaginary (roads in video games, paintings), symbolic (roads in pilgrimages), and transcendent (roads in myth), the dialectic of history thus churns itself out of itself.

2.3.7 it would be prudent thus, to think of these constructively as easels upon which are hung (or wrapped) the paintings called machines. Deconstructively, the frame around the canvas. 


#### 2.4 these categories sort machines into futher relationships (hierarchies) downstream, such as those of declinations, declensions, inclinations, and intentions etc. As interesting as these hierarchies are in themselves, for the purposes of this text we shall consider language as a machine/tool without much emphasis on linguistic relations. 

2.4.1 our primary interest is the cartography of this metaphysical kingdom without getting lost in the paralysing parade of linguistic flotillas of meaning, or allowing psychoanalytic concerns to queer the pitch any more than necessary.


#### 2.5 just as a counter cannot be made without numbers, legends in metaphysical maps cannot be constructed without using the configurations of singularity (self, identity...), duality, trinity and so on. as described in 3.3.2 the _self_ or singularity of psychosomatic "oneness", is one such config, the duality of a childhood friendship, or the holy trinity others.

2.5.1 such identities of identities form the landscape above which levitate unmoored - circular, linguistic, and string-like rings of _assignation_ and _association_, grouping machines further into categories ad infinitum.

2.5.2 a movement of these rings correlates strongly with the movements of '_grounding_' and '_decentering_' in personal and public psyches.

2.5.3 these structures are purely language-derived in themselves but assume logico-social reality in operation and execution outside of language.

2.5.3 the grounding and decentering allocates a machine its functional boundaries, in so far as a machine is defined in functional terms, its ontological and epistemological borders come from these associative bands of meaning.

---


3.1 work is the output of bP and dP but no machine exists for output alone, in transcendental machines also, work is the by-product of bP and dP but is no longer subject to the same state space thus has acquired the more meaningful state of work'


3.2 at the same time, no machine works for transcendence alone, though some machines are more dedicated towards it than others 


3.3 work for each machine is localised to its connections, the ontological purpose of its survival is the performance of its work


3.3.1 although a lot of machines explore their environments and interfaces, sufficiently complex machines can access new epistemic categories through work


3.3.2 a _modality of cognition_ is a machine comprising of sense data and memory, it lives in states of emotion, feelings, sensations etc and is always already connected at least to one structural and functional identity through the connection called variously _self_, _ego_, _identity_, _sovereignty_ etc. 

---


4.1 the finite state space includes 'error' states, albeit error states themselves are capable of achieving transcendence, and thus becoming error' states


4.2 it is thus possible for a machine to achieve transcendence through an error in bP or dP or through relations and connections or the misfiring thereof 

4.2.1 it is also possible to achieve transcendence through acts of ommision or comission of a connected machine 


4.3 becoming transcendent _may_ connect the machine' to other transcendent machines 


---


5.1 a human being is a machine with the highest possible number of transcendental states and connections, furthermore it has the requisite bP hardware and self awareness as well

5.1.1 death is the only transcendental state available to other animals, whereas a human can die before he dies in more ways than one, such as sleep, coma, orgasm, or under anesthesia.

5.1.2 in general the dictum is, simpler the machine, fewer the states 


5.1.3  with mathematical precision and certaintly, every state transition changes the overall state of the sum [1.4] [2.1.6]


5.1.4 humanity is a constellation of machines now capable of changing planetary scale states but also construction basic infrastructre in space. surely there ought to be enough transcendental machinery to take us into and across the next few milenniums, but unfortunately the current social fabric is preoccupied with historical state spaces and the nakedness of existing transitions to make out the trees from the woods.


5.1.5 for all their progress and despite the internet, the number of truly transcendent humans remains low, increasingly concerned with routine chugging along, paranoid of the emergent technological and superlative states. they know everything but can figure out nothing.


--- 


6.1 Ours is a way out of non-transcendent states and connections, from within the framework of the human machine and doing this at scale and speed hitherto unheard of in ethical or hyper-ethical behaviours. Thus increasing the speed of human evolution by orders of magnitude, while discounting for, avoiding, and proactively preventing states of error including violence, state and market failures, suicide, wars etc.


6.2 armed with only the prior requirements 5.1 and examples of superlative states like death, we can hypothesize the emulation of similar state transitions and also the existence of other such states 


6.3 a state is a unit of all information about the machine at a given time, it can be a unit of particular subsystem (respiratory, cardiac etc) or of the overall - states and stateful configurations give insight into the overall being 


6.4 there is a state hierarchy as well, denoting both external and internal environments. 


6.5 these state hierarchies form the cornerstone of decision making states, which themselves are arranged in a treelike configrations such that there are higher states of being and wellness as well as lower, and some decisions are superior to others 

6.5.1 decision-making machines crunch out facts and values as work, which is their output relaying into other machines and changing their states via action.

---

10.1 classification of states 

