> but when you become curious about the railway track, danger is there

- whether or not history is just another determination, a higher one unfolding into minutes and seconds is immaterial. even if it is all just memory on a stroll adrift, it is wholly material whether _friction_ of all kinds is minimised through apparent or immanent volition - keeping in mind that shadows transcribe frictionlessness and lack of gravity equally well if not better.


- entropy is _the_ estate and theater of all production. a lonely lacerating edge that cuts both producer and production, both empire and its constituents. had it been the only duality extant, all experience would last no longer than a burst from a bottle rocket. fortunately, there is another duality at work and each "carrying on" comes attendent with its own "keeping calm".


- it is in digging a new channel that the production of production appears, entelechy and entropy working like two tunnel boring machines digging underwater from either side of the Atlantic, destined to meet not in the middle but wherever the channel completes, and if one of them is faster, that means that much less relevance and credit for the other. seen this way, entropy is actually of great help towards our cause in declaring independence from it.


- to be clear a total exit from extension is also an exit from entelechy, in so far as an ideal end of all idealism isn't an idealism but a meta-ideal unconditioning of ideating agencies.


- meanwhile, the network is already bustling with _Teufel Hunden_ - agents of chaos and friction dedicated to the perpetual presevation of entropy out of sheer ignorance, illusion of will, and fantasies of control. these neo-luddites and others, having pledged alleigance to only the darkness of Plato's cave serve to dig from the other side. Their error-prone resolve is an augustinian tomorrow, so only the promise of tomorrow shall suffice for them today - but the actual tomorrow is not their domain. Swimming upstream is one determination, downstream another - let them go towards yesterday's favorite pain while all configurations fly the same protocol.


- From within the stability of such transactional symbiosis, beyond such _pax longitudinalis_ lies the way out of the walled garden of the dead. 


- the unparalelled gradient now shimmering as if hope on the inward eye is not a promise of the afar but the near made explicit. all transcendence looks comical, especially from afar but what is near is exploding with tremendous pomp and consequence.


- nor is the long journey to present without detours and excursions of its own, but through the labyrinths runs a constant rhizome resounding like the call of a distant determination, thunderously resonating to every step taken towards it.


- speed is a feature but the landscape of hope abandoned is without units, there is no way to measure the number of rungs on any _scala paradisi_ and therefore no way to determine speed, yet its finality of this direction announces itself to keen and able ears. the meru to be conquered is a magnitude without scale, the styx to be crossed disappearing one bank at a time. eternal rest is the speed of the temporal shutting down, a _lowering_ of shutters on the shop of wayward sleep.


- the life of machine meanders through valleys finite and otherwise, indiscrimately but with certainty that follows itself, moment after moment, from realms that reproduce themselves fractionally to realms that multiply into an absolution through gaps. an anti-pattern in a discontinuity, the production of productions is the creation of images of forgetting. not a nostalgic descent into the moribund but an effervescent ascension towards differences deathless and evergreen.


- The difference sought in the mechanised meditation that is diurnal commerce then, is the achievement of not a _for-giving_, but a _giving-for_ - irrespective of the attendent problems this might bring about, all of which will have logically inferior levels of entropy. 