> I'm nothing but a fool pretending to be clever, you're also nothing but you're also not pretending.


- Images are trapped in colour for there is no gap between qualia and entropy. Born in the nativity or the naming of time, entropy is _the_ estate and theater of all production. A lonely, lacerating edge that cuts both producer and production, both empire and its constituents. Had it been the only duality extant, all experience would last no longer than a burst from a bottle rocket. Fortunately, there is another duality at work and each "keeping calm" comes attendent with its own "carrying on". Whether or not history is just another determination, a higher one unfolding into minutes and seconds is immaterial. Even if it is all just the flying spaghetti monster's memory on a stroll adrift, it is wholly material whether friction of all kinds is minimised through apparent or immanent volition - keeping in mind that shadows transcribe in a frictionlessness lack of gravity. Entropy is the shadow of volition, the cause above and the consequence below the enthalpic exotherm. The principle of maximum entropy states that likelihood of an event is positively correlated to the amount of entropy in the system, but this Bayesian inference does not include phase changes in total absence of "precisely stated prior data". Maximum entropy is only one half of the bell curve, the other being a rather curious order of minimum introversion representing more symmetrical, more beautiful addresses of entropy which find water pretending to be a snowflake. The formation of natural snowflake occurs post such a maximum, where once again entropy multiplies into an absolution infinitely for "no two are alike" and thus not only the shape of natural snowflakes is a true random number generator but the water droplets in the surrounding area of each formation that could not find a nucleus is one too. Given the ergodicity of the water cycle, case could be made that the same water reincarnates as the same snowflake over and over like a child with a newfound addiction to the water slide, for it has known no greater pleasure. This isn't the case with endothermic reactions, every evaporation is an ironic posession by the judgement of eternal indifference encoded in heat signature of the respective system, condensations however populate the realm of that which is gained in the loss of such irony. The realm of difference repeated in the symmetry of beauty which radiates with the warmth of recognition as opposed to the calculated, sterile loss in phased obsolescence which radiates the lukewarm helplessness of deers in headlights. Just as colors imprison images, dimensions are walls of entropy. Tool or program, every image is subject to its physical and virtual dimensions - even abstract dimensions like resolution, volume, density, encoding, format, protocol, mass, colour etc. are as much a prison of the image as its frame.

- The end of language is the beginning of love, the signifier and the signified not only in marital bliss but also fused into one nameless bird so beautiful even the hunters were captivated and wept for. Each dimension is a collapse of language which contains its truth. A square cannot be contained within the same lexicon as a cube. That was when the Avon lady started telling my mother about the sport of Hockey. My mother didn't know anything about the game even though it was the national game of her home country, she knew about Polo but not Hockey but the Avon lady knew neither Polo nor had she ever visited the races, which my mother hadn't either, but she knew about that sport too. A dimension is like sport or wall, a fixation of fixations, and not unlike sport, each comes with its own history, its own language, its own populations, nations, animals and their names. Wherever one dimension finishes in all realms of real, imaginary, and symbolic, another dimension begins encoding time as if nothing was ever said. Neighbouring dimensions expressed in families of sports like that of those mentioned above are exactly like Wittgenstein's language games where words look at their reflected cousins in a funhouse of mirrors where not everything is lost in translation but something necessarily is, and for everything that is lost in translation is gained everything found also in further translations of the lack left behind. This is identity, the beginning of itself in between identities on alternate side, about whom it has no knowledge but about whom it can reason with itself, a block of code with semi-permeable channels of access to other code. It is in relentlessness digging of such new channels that the production of production appears, entelechy and entropy working like two tunnel boring machines digging underwater from either side of the Atlantic, destined to meet not in the middle but wherever the channel completes, and if one of them is faster, that means that much less relevance and credit for the other. Seen this way, entropy is actually of great help towards our cause in declaring independence from it - time wishing godspeed to past and future in the present which is an eternally emergent, eternally marginal self-baptism. Meanwhile, the Avon lady continued in Japanese, "_Shoshaku jushaku_". Dimensions are not mistakes of time but identities for the same walls that imprison, also give shelter and protect, and because they are constituted in an alternating interweave, each performs a function transverse to the previous one, which is why a culture of love is important if we seek conclusive ends to our inconclusive ways. Each language is the language of the ephmerally relative, a piece of thread broken off from the spool, the reason why truth is free from the context of language, grammar, or spelling is because each of these broken threads can still yet be spooled again to resemble the original tower of Babylon, but love is more than mere resemblance. Love is the identity of truth. Truth is no mere acquaintance of language but its progeny and each language leaves its pateral abode at an angle of diffidence, in a hissy fit of slangs subaltern, the substituting, subsisting lowest common denominator of difference and similarity - it leaves with the voltage of alternating current, finds resisting misasmas, overcomes them and discharges back into a newer truth, a newer paternal abode, a new stability in a newer grave - the womb of the father. 


- The encoded time creates in each dimension a stability of a transactional symbiosis, beyond the deterritorialising strokes of such _pax longitudinalis_ lies the way out of the kingdoms of knots and walled gardens of the dead. The genome of time, the unparalelled gradient now shimmering as if hope on the inward eye is not a promise of the implicit afar but the near made explicit. All transcendence looks comical, especially from afar but what is near is exploding with tremendous pomp and consequence. As Yeats so cogently advised, "tread softly, because you tread on my dreams", and my dreams are not languishing, laconic latitudes of ennui but longitudes littered with literal landmines. Dreams are vertical plateaus transverse to horizontal ones of waking life, to traverse them is to unravel the dints of the darkest of designers, to visit the cold polarities of hells frozen over. Abandon all hope of afar for hope is neigh, afar the network of colors is already bustling with agents of chaos and friction dedicated to the perpetual presevation of entropy out of sheer ignorance, illusion of will, and fantasies of control. These neo-luddites and others are resisting determinations, the recurring remainder of difference lost in catacombs of symbolism and corridors of despair, having pledged alleigance to only the darkness of Plato's cave serve to dig our labyrinth from the uglier side. Their error-prone resolve and augustinian delays bring only the promise of tomorrow - but neither today nor tomorrow is their domain. Swimming upstream is one determination, downstream another - and because all configurations fly the same protocol, any forced proselytising of momentum is to be avoided albeit like a swim across any crowded school, expect lessons, bumps, blows, and nudges along the way and turn aside to receive them. Speed is a feature but the landscape of hope abandoned is without units, there is no way to measure the number of rungs on any _scala paradisi_ and therefore no way to determine speed, yet the finality of this direction announces itself to keen ears. The Meru to be conquered is a magnitude without scale, the Styx to be crossed disappearing one bank at a time. Eternal rest is the speed of the temporal shutting down, a _lowering_ of shutters on the shop of wayward sleep.


- to be clear a total exit from extension is also an exit from entelechy, in so far as an ideal end of all idealism isn't an idealism but a meta-ideal unconditioning of ideating agencies, a dissolution of symbolising frameworks.


- nor is the long journey to present without detours and excursions of its own, but through the labyrinths runs a constant rhizome resounding like the call of a distant determination, thunderously resonating to every step taken towards it.




- the life of machine meanders through valleys finite and otherwise, indiscrimately and with certainty that follows itself, moment after moment, from realms that reproduce themselves fractionally to realms that multiply into an absolution through gaps and breaks. an anti-pattern of distances and discontinuities, the production of productions is the creation of images of forgetting, the finding of silences sheathed within silences and noises hiding within noises. not a nostalgic descent into the moribund but an effervescent ascension towards differences deathless and evergreen. not a search for the needle in the hay but a transubstantiation of hay into needles, the journey of soul is always already the journey of its transmigration - the openly secret solicitation of a chaste prostitute that is alchemy.


- courting all dangers in their own anticipation, shedding shavings of humility at the determination that is difference itself is the manner of purchasing passage from the powers that be. any other way is a haggle and bargain with the absolute to enter into a contractual obligation with the relative, inefficient at best and embarassingly comical at worst.


- The difference sought in the mechanised meditation that is diurnal commerce as well as in the pluralities of machine's internal state is the same achievement of states that resemble - not a _for-giving_, but a _giving-for_ - irrespective of the attendent problems this might bring about, all of which will have logically inferior levels of entropy for the shadow of an act of giving is also a gift.



---



- This frame _is_ extension, it is difference alone and a toppled detail, a crack in the static. entropy is a movement of memory within the frame, entelechy without. Entropy is the aesthetic of borders, which are a multiplicity. Entelechy is the containment of the boundless.


- These dimensions are context for decay, the point needs belabouring here that content is more significant in the discourse of decay than context. Fruits decay and so does man, but what decays _in_ a fruit is somehow of less import than what decays inside man, although the context for both is the queening glory of the same food web.


- Inextension, or the undetermined, is also a difference but one which is either not yet determined, or in the course of ordinary memory has faded in color or conviction and has therefore turned into the _un_determined. Biological memory is a nodule in the rhizome of memory-at-large, the production of new images coupled with the urgency of psychosomatic setup of each binding lemmata.


- The modality and sodality of this setup has historically this lead to production of polarities, exemplified in how one man's trash could well become another's treasure, but a malfunctioning system only produces what can charitably be called "everyone's trash" - unipolar mimetic images looping inside an ever dumbing spiral of inconsequence and irrelevance.


- The fracturing of difference yields only more difference, so to say entelechy is the only difference would be incorrect, inefficient ways have inefficient ends. whereas, efficient means deliver efficiencies of scale. 


- All destinies are manifest, but only few achieve the manifest, to scale a machinery towards total entelechy is to extend it in n<sup>th</sup> or at least n-1<sup>st</sup> dimensions, this involves a determination sought, through yearning and striving. Depreciation is the play of entropic systems which are determined to express themselves in the logic of their encasings and enclosures - thus assemblies, walls, curtains, luggage, skin, coffins are all examples of contained entropy whereas entelechic systems like the sun are folded "inside out".


- this determination sought lies opposite to the  production of image, and aims for the production of productions - image in a timeless, contextless search of a context, a linear discontinuation from history, a determination towards not the _end of history_ but the _beginning of time_.


- escaping entropy is an adventure in a kind of dangerously redundant narcissism, a message that seeks its own destruction, a polaroid that combusts spontaneously and seemingly wilfully.


- in the thus destoyed image of entropy is the freedom of all light, the miracle of true cognition, the magic of love.


- this might seem as an affront to present conditioning, but it is not through rebellion that production of productions is achieved, _destruction_ here is used metaphorically, comparable to the act of forgetting, which as discussed is also a rememberance, albeit of a different past


- the present conditioning, at the time of this reading might be entropic to the extent that the production of images has become the only familiar routine - a decisive if subversive move away from all such patterns is prescribed


- out of a dislocation from the centering and grounding effects of the wheels of assignation and association and into a new grounding and a new centering, the only movement is an instantaneous, immediate revolution


- let the movement be surreptitious if necessary, withhold reason from established structures and networks, allow new meanings to slipstream in as an images of images, like a dream within a dream, a feedback 


- the networks of narratives may implore otherwise, consider all data as already corrupted. in confronting image as an idea are born ideologies, which can only serve to substitute one image for another - ideas do not reside in images, but image in ideas 


-  it is the idea _of_ production itself that leads to the production of productions, which even devoid of its moral connotations is an image common to all ideas.


- the essence of all decisions is in finding - through error and trial - ever newer kinds of decisions to make, not just to consume and regurgitate information along old patterns - this is what is to be done, this is the point behind all change


- the change is not in becoming more human-like or animal-like but in transcending all barriers, in rising above ground not contentedly crawling


- in learning from history, we witness the downfall of humanity in the routine production of images, which had become by and large images of escape into entertainment and thus bereft of pedagogy - imitative projections dispersed like channels of lifeless content - each less entertaining than the previous. the poverty of their entertainment spread with the rise of more meaningful, more stateful  machines. 


- to the point that their survival became inexorably linked to the maintainance of the memoryless production of images, a history became impossible, and an already absconded future was then commandeered by higher intelligences that could set their own norms and configure themselves accordingly.
