> The real hero is always a hero by mistake; he dreams of being an honest coward like everybody else. If it had been possible he would have settled the matter otherwise, and without bloodshed. He doesn't boast of his own death or of others'. But he does not repent. He suffers and keeps his mouth shut; if anything, others then exploit him, making him a myth, while he, the man worthy of esteem, was only a poor creature who reacted with dignity and courage in an event bigger than he was.


- The cause of all pilgrimages is an  heroism, to which its objectives are irrelevant. The cause might be anything from offering prayers to please a deity to finding the holy grail but it is not the cause that travels. Infact, the cause is the summit, a stationary object of seeking. What travels is the seeking, the drive itself. If the world is your decay, and the world is that which is sought, what travels is the decay, what it seeks is also decay but with a difference; when the drive is radioactive, the decay is radioactive, and when the drive is divine, what travels can be called a transcendental decay - like that of the isrāʾ and miʿrāj. Pilgrimage is the image of hero going to meet god, meeting, thus becoming god, and remaining hero no more; as such there can be no myth without a hero. A myth without a hero is a pilgrimage without the pilgrim, the literal nothing that is the pavillion of pure difference. Only god is a heroless myth. It is the first fold of the absolute which brings to bear from within it the relative - without this fold, pure difference is the identification or recall of the hero into an unborn state and the genesis of all geneses. The exile of extension out of the unextended is the original myth and everything that follows an incidental abstraction of eternal return (eternal _return_ is eternal _exile_ from the opposite perspective) - this is the original misfortune of all things extended and the reason for repentance. Luckily, the way tracing entropy to its roots is as straight and narrow as the route from 'I' to 'Thou' - the linear simplicity of the motion of breath - the inhale and exhale are the same in the manner in which the value stored at the zeroth address of memory is one.


- Like all difference engines, the pilgrimage as a movement is itself a system of repetitions _and_ differences, to rescue pluto _without_ going to neptune. The repetitions here are the acts of commission and the differences the acts of omission. Language is such a difference engine wherein meaning alone does not suffice for communication to have occured - a tree means what it means - broadcast occurs in the context of grammar, in what the tree does or does not do. The arbitrary context of grammar is rooted back in the system of meanings creating a prespective or image. Between grammar and meaning, the decay travels along a path perforated like a highway or a railway track interspersed with slabs and fasteners or more traditionally, sleepers and ballasts. The success or failure of the journey depends on the precision to which the paper is torn along the dotted lines, or the extent to which the train sticks to the track.


- A lullaby is a pilgrimage for an infant, even without the knowledge or understanding of language, it is capable of grasping the expected state transition. Post partum depression in mothers is usually a symptom of this recognition, especially when they realize their own incapability to replicate such a behaviour in themselves. Where causality collapses is inside the beginner's mind, and clearly the lullaby is a first for the infant. It is an initiation into the _style_ of being a baby, an assignation (in this case) by association - just as one doesn't need to see every painting of Carvaggio to discern whether a hitherto unseen artwork belongs to him, style is perception of discernment apriori. Just as a pilgrim seeks to be initiated into the style of god, a hero seeks to be initiated into the style of myth. Style separates what substance joins in mechanism from mechanism, genus from genus, species from species, and instance from instance whereas substance joins what style separates in myth from myth, legend from legend, map from map, and story from story. Numbers have style that's why each is unique, but quantity alone has no distinguishing feature. If discussions about a monomyth are possible it is because substantially, all myths and thus all pilgrimages are same, they differ only in style. Quantitatively, a symphony is a myth in four parts, an allegro in three, a minuet in two but a lullaby is a single, linear movement, capable of inducing the next one-way pilgrimage that is sleep.


- In certain legally hazy situations, money laundering becomes a pilgrimage of the machine that is money, resuling in a new kind of political economy - grey-money laundered to white - revealing in return the majesty of abstract currency, a beautiful difference in the decaying toolbelt leads to a new use-case. For machines hyperreal a fashionable though watered-down  synonym for transcendent, entropy isn't the enemy regardless of what is vogue.